{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl ;\red155\green0\blue211;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green77\blue187;\red255\green255\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 Sections\par
Prologue\par
One Shteim Afternoon\par
\lang1033 Paul and Jeannie Move onto the Land\lang9\par
Paul and Jeannie Settle In\par
Calm Years\par
The First Newcomers\par
First Services on the Land\b0\par
\b\par
\par
\f1 Prologue\par
\b0 Nicholls County, Missouri, was organized on January 29, 1841 as Plutarch County. The original town of Plutarchville was burned as a result of General Order Number 11 and its actual location is debatable.  Under that order the rural areas of Missouri counties bordering Kansas from Jackson south the the northern half of Vernon County were evacuated.  \par
\lang1033 To the eye the land looked like flat, barren wasteland, but there were long rolling prairie hills with cottonwoods, black locusts and Osage oranges clinging to the shallow creekbeds on bedrock.  \par
No trace of an Indian settlement or encampment has ever been found in the western part of the county. \lang9 In the 1930s Dr. Lewis Stutley, cultural anthropologist from Mizzou, attempted to find out why the Indians shunned the area. In an interview with older members of the Osage, they only fell silent and shook their heads when Nicholls County was pointed to on a map.  Further questions were not encouraged. He obtained the same reaction from the Pawnee. Years later the Kickapoo told him they had heard a white man was asking about Nicholls County and said the Osage had stories they told no one, except that was land one crossed in a hurry and did not stay on at night.  That was all they knew, and all Dr. Stutley ever learned about it. \par
After the Civil War few of the original settlers returned to Plutarch County.  The new residents petitioned that the name be changed to honor Samuel Nicholas, the first Commandant of the Marine Corps.  These were Marine veterans of the conflict from both sides who wanted to live together as brother Marines once again, many of whom had served together before the war and only reluctantly considered fighting their fellow Marines.   Attempts to correct the spelling error by the town and county were made during the 1890s, but by that time it was well known as Nicholls and the state had already allowed one name change. The state refused another.  This remained as a source of contention up to the time of this story, with a few people still attempting the change every year.  Since then it had been a routine annual vote at city meetings.  No one knows who made the initial error - the state claims the county submitted it as Nicholls, and the county hotly denies doing so. The original paperwork seems to have gone missing.  \par
Nicholls County had always been lightly inhabited due to the thin soil that if plowed simply blew away and left bare rock.  This was particularly true in the area west of the only town in the county, sensibly if disrespectully to Commandant Nicholas named Nicholls, never more than a few hundred adults in population.  To the east there were some ranches that attempted to raise fewer head of cattle than could be done elsewhere; to the west, across the state line, normal prairie resumed uninterrupted.   \par
Among the war-time evacuees was the Mueller family, which had \lang1033 acquired the west half of then-Plutarch County sometime before the war. They farmed and ranched, not too successfully, up to evacuation. Some say that they destroyed what little soil there was with their activiities.  A letter from an Augustus Mueller to his brother Otto in Kansas City was handed over to Nicholls County for historical purposes after the death of Otto in 1884.  The letter, in German, related how they were actually glad to get off the land, as the soil was poor, and they were reluctant at the prospect of returning, but 'all their wealth was sunk into the land,'  or an alternate translation,'all our treasure has been dug into the earth.'  That phrase has caused a great deal of comment.  The letter is undated and there is no envelope.  Some think it might be a fraud. \b\lang9\par

\pard\b0\lang1033 After the Civil War the family began rebuilding their burned-out ranch. After the events in Harrisonville previously related, Mrs. Mueller took her children to live with her sister in Minnesota and abandoned the land.  There were no buyers. While one notorious wooded ravine seemed to flourish, the land around it was parched for miles, almost soilless even past the area that would become the POW camp.  East of the woods the ravine emptied out onto flat land.  A spring fed very shallow, algae covered rocks where dragonflies danced and mosquitoes hunted, but the water was too shallow for anything but insects.  There were a few pools but they were also shallow and far between and reeked. Westward from those woods no trees grew for miles until  the soil and hills slowly returned to normal prairie.\par
\par
Sometimes people came onto the land in search of treasure.  This was especially true in the 1930s during the Great Depression.  For several years there were even three hotels in Nicholls, then bursting with treasure hunters who had lost much in 1929 and were now desperate to find the Blythewood treasure. 'Gotta be here somewhere,' they would say. The only one who really got rich was Asa Bromfeldt of Nicholls Hardware, which sold tents, shovels, sleeping bags, picks and other treasure-hunting necessities. He did well enough to open Nicholls Bank in 1935.  Nicholls always operated on the Epper barter system, using cash only when necessary.  Asa Bromfeldt had no scruples about charging an out-of-towner a fee for cashing his check, and then marking up hardware goods for that self-same out-of-towner when he bought his camping equipment. He also bought it back used, but for nothing near the original purchase price. The treasure hunt ended suddenly with the declaration of war in 1941, and Nicholls Bank mainly cashed checks for Marine retirees in town and was the bank of record for the city and county. \par
\par
From late 1942 to 1946 the deserted Mueller Ranch housed Camp Nicholls.  At first  Prisoner of War Camp Nicholls held Italian officers and enlisted personnel in separate areas.  The army had cut out an area over a mile long and over half a mile wide that went down into bedrock for much of its length that looked level to the eye.   The first set of guards were generally seventeen to eighteen year olds, just out of basic training but judged not really combat material. They were often seen in Nicholls with a POW detail assigned to clean or paint. The guards were treated generally like the residents' own children now away at war and ate meals in the homes and dated the local girls. They stopped frequenting Butler's after locals beat some of them up there on a Saturday evening.   The Hooch House was also declared off limits to them.  Some corresponded with townspeople for years after the war and even returned for visits. Prisoners gave music lessons.\par
\par
The Italians were captured in 1940 at El Agheila by the British General O'Connor  and had been held by the British until US prisoner of war holding facilities won the argument that they would be better off here. They were the Italian 10th Army Band, a batillion of stone masons from Milan, and several infantry batillions. They brought their own priest, Don Rafael, O.S.B., an Italian Army chaplain, who settled disputes both between the Italians and with the camp and if needed with the town.  The band also brought their own musical instruments.  Several times they gave concerts in Nicholls and even were bussed elsewhere to perform.   The stone masons had worked on Italian fortifications in North Africa and were non-combatants. These began a quarry, marveling at the high quality of the limestone to be found here.  They were allowed to build some short walls and then a beautiful stone chapel, which they used (Don Rafael had chosen to go with them into US custody even when offered the chance to be freed). The presence of a priest was more of a cause of suspicion for Protestant Nicholls than that the US was at war with Italy, but with his affable manner "Father Don" was well liked. They also had a doctor, a number of medical orderlies, their own dentist and dental assistant, and an optometrist, all of whom were allowed to practice.   \par
\par
The Army discovered after a while that there was a lack of farm work nearby to parcel the prisoners out to, and other localities were short on farm labor,  and so in 1944 Camp Nicholls was repurposed for German enlisted personnel and officers deemed dangerous:  the new orientation, attitude and staff was more disciplinary: among the inmates were hard-core Nazis and soldiers who had attempted to escape, assaulted guards or fellow inmates. The guards were changed, and the new guards were never seen in town and socialized elsewhere.  Rumor had it they were grim veterans of Africa and the Sicily campaign and they were selected on the basis of passionately hating Germans. They had a battle-hardened, tough and angry way about them.  The Germans were taken directly to the camp and confined. Instead of stone blocks they broke the limestone into gravel - prisoners who misbehaved were sent into the quarry to break rock and carry it. They deepened the quarry the Italians started, breaking rock that was removed and used elsewhere by the Army, once the field of fire was satisfactory around the camp.  You could see the camp  lit up at night from Nicholls, and sometimes, day or night, there would be the sound of a pistol, rifle or the short burst of a machine gun, but there was never any explanation for that given to the town, which did not ask questions. The Italians' short walls were broken up into gravel.   \par
\par
The strange, persistent rumor of treasure was in the air.  The German prisoners were set to finding the Blythewood treasure in chain gangs with picks and shovels, and they dug up anywhere soil had managed to stay intact for several miles around the camp.  The soil was left in mounds, many of which soon blew away in the seemingly constant wind. \par
\par
All prisoners were repatriated in 1946, directly moved from the camp to the train station still under guard. They repatriated the dead as well, and the graves were filled with gravel.  The grim soldiers left, passing through the town wordlessly to their trains. They left the camp without looking back.  A week later construction crews with large bulldozers arrived. They razed most of the camp, pushing the buildings into large piles. They set fire to the piles. and pushing the still-smoking debris into the quarry. They removed the water tower and the fences.  Five of the better-built buildings remained: the commanding officer's residence, the camp headquarters, the infirmary, the guards' dining hall and the stone chapel. Then the construction crews also left. The fire in the quarry burned slowly for over a year until enough rain had come to put it out. \par
\par
In 1947 Don Rafael, O.S.B., formerly the prisoner-priest at Camp Nicholls during its Italian days, returned to a welcome that surprised him from the anti-Catholic town.   He said that land that had once been a prison would be a fine place to find true liberty.  The Milan diocese in Italy sent him and some others with the assistance of Conception Abbey in northwest Missouri. American Benedictine monks from there joined the short-lived attempt to create a new abbey.  The army handed the 40 acres or so of their property over to Don Rafael with Mueller family agreement. The monks converted the five remaining buildings into a Retreat Center.  The stone chapel remained and was in use.  In 1962, with Don Rafael in poor health, increasing maintenance issues, declining interest in retreats there and better facilities elsewhere, the Benedictines closed the retreat center.  Among other things, they could not keep up with the maintenance required on the hastily built structures, and had ceased using them, one by one as they fell into disrepair. The monks removed to Conception Abbey or returned to Italy, taking what they could with them in the understanding that the land was being abandoned. Of the chapel, only the stone remained with its wooden roof. Later the Black Friars were accused of taking the interior doors, stripping out the electric lines, the plumbing and the window glass, but that happened later. They had had a perfect right to do so.\par
\par
The town was happy to see them gone, on the whole viewing anyone Catholic with a suspicious eye and monks were even worse, although there were never any problems.  The Black Friars had seldom been seem in town. In 1962 the order offered it to the Boy Scouts and again to the military.   Both said no.  The order kept the land until their lawyers found a clause that reverted the land to the Muellers, who disputed it but were unwilling to take it to court. As church land, there had been no property taxes, but as private property there would be some.  The Muellers threatened to not pay the taxes and then the county would own it, but the county did not want it.  So the taxes were set to zero and the Muellers kept the land, arguing among themselves what to do with it.  No one wanted to move back on it, but neither was there agreement on selling it. The only thing they agreed on was not giving it or selling it to the Johnston family or their representatives, as their overtures had been obnoxious.\par
 \par
\lang9 With the Benedictines the gate vanished. The quarry became an unofficial  dumping ground for old appliances, refrigerators, cars, garbage and trash on top of the burned debris. All the copper and electrical wire, plumbing pipes and anything of value was stripped from the buildings, which, aside from the stone chapel and a few small ornamental stone walls, had been built with war-time speed and quality had been thrown to the wind.  Nicholls teenagers would come and dare each other to get near the snakes in Snake Woods, as the one wooded ravine was called. There were fatalities.  Trash, grafitti, and broken windows sped decay. Letters the County wrote the Muellers went unanswered; they were hoping the County would take the land. Erosion from the ever-present wind, which would search out and blow the last possible speck of dust from every crack and hole, set in and crept out from the desertified camp, leaving acres of exposed limestone that baked in July and August to over 120 degrees most days. In the winter it was windswept, and shallow pools would form that dried before algae had a chance. The limestone chapel baked in the summer heat.  It still had a strange beauty in the wilderness in the external and internal emptiness.  Some people went to see it, even after others with spray cans of paint had "decorated" it with initials, messages about who loved whom, and of course, obscenities. \par
\par
=========\par
\par
"I must say, young man, that I feel this is an error, a mistake, a miscalculation," Dr. Leyden turned, took off his spectacles and looked out at the pine trees, deep into them where they merged into a solid mass. They were green and it was good to see them again without snow. Was there any way this conversation would end well?  There was a glimmer of hope, but not much.  He sighed audibly. The only sound now in thee room was that of the amanuensis in his corner, not missing a word with his pen. Beyond that was the clock-clock of the grandfather in the hall, steadily beating out the seconds. Murmured conversations and slow footsteps in the halls: a pastor never runs, but walks with gravity, dignity and sobreity. Even more so, an academician.  Many had received the lecture in the red leather chair across the dark oak desk, delivered in earnest tones by Dr. Leyden.  This was the first rebuke this particular candidate had ever been given. \par
\par
Jake Profim sat in the middle red leather chair in silence. That young man filled it, not so much physically, though he did indeed do that, but with greatness. It hung about him somehow, even now, when he had abandoned the respect of his teachers, colleagues, mentors and peers, and embraced what seemed to many to be an error.  That such a man, stellar in his studies, would do something so stupid was shocking.  And it was probably too late to talk him out of it.  Nonetheless he must try. Dr. Leyden changed the 'probably' to 'definitely': some things, even if repented of, still warranted a severe response.\par
\par
"As you know this seminary was established in 1563 in a settlement in the Netherlands.  We are rightly proud of our long history of faithfulness to the Scriptures and making men of godly character, wisdom, prudence and faithfulness to the Scriptures and the God of the Scriptures.  In that long history, few have done as well as you academically.  I cannot think of a single Epper who has ever done as well.  You already have a contract for your first book, and graduation is a week away! Allow me the pleasure, and it is a pleasure indeed, for the moment, to list your accomplishments.  You graduated \i summa cum laude\i0  from Stanford University out in California - at the age of 22! Double majoring in linguistics and history! Incredible! In three years here you have won the "Best Sermon of the Year Award". Your article on the impact of Seneca on Calvin's thought has been widely praised and republished, amazing for someone not even a graduate. You have turned down replacing me as pastor here, which in itself is almost unimaginable and I refrain, sir from considering it an insult, as I would like to retire and I would have taken you under my wing and shepherded you as pastor-in-waiting and helped you with time for your doctorate, but no. Two other highly-sought-after pastoral positions wined and dined you, but no. Aberdeen, Westminster, Covenant and Tuebingen have all made overtures to you. And your answer?"\par
\par
"No," Jake Profim said to the figure still looking out the window. \par
\par
"That is where prudence comes in - something we had hoped to instill in you.  Well. I need not remind you that you have been teaching seminary - you came here to study, and insteading you have been teaching -  these last two years at a level of brilliance: accolades from your students, and remarkably from other faculty members who have chosen to attend. .  I need not remind you that many have regarded you as our hope, to lead us out of denominational decline.  I need not remind you that many had hoped that you would rise to lead us in many ways.  I am dumbfounded.  Let me say that I speak for the entire faculty here. I, sir, am dumbfounded.  We are dumbfounded that you would accept the pastorate at what may be our most hopelessly obscure and tiny settlement - let me correct that, \i church \i0 - in an out of the way place with no future and no hope, if not simply a grave. Dr. Stehn's description was 'a real backwater in the middle of nowhere' - he had the unpleasant experience of going there once. Churches as opposed to settlements, as you know, are widely regarded among us as compromised, not the real Epper way. The few of these that have happened via historical accident are not encouraged. As pastor of one you will be regarded as inferior, on the edge of things.  Something of a pariah. The month is May and the year is 1966, sir, and the times are changing, like the seasons but more unpredictably.  We need strong leadership from you that cannot be had if you bury yourself in Nicholls, Missouri. And I say bury.  Because this is a career killer.  This is a lack of good judgement, a deficiency in wisdom and prudence that no academic prowess can hope to remedy, no word of counsel correct.  You are obstinate in this. Refractory. This is a wrongly placed determination..  I cannot find it in my heart, and here, again, I speak for all of us, to admit you to the doctoral program here, now, after you have made this decision.  No one has ever gone to Nicholls and gone on to another church.  They have all been obscure men who died and then their pulpit was filled by other obscure men, none of whom have ever left any visible mark or impression on Eppers in general.   And the same will happen to you. We are proud of your accomplishments, and so the pain is greater due to our affection for you.  Now, sir, please explain to me why you chose Nicholls."\par
\par
"It is a quiet place where I can write. Nothing ever happens in Nicholls, as you say. It is almost a settlement, because the number of people in the church is the same as the number of people in the town."\par
\par
"So you think it will be a writing place, a retreat almost."\par
\par
"I think so.  It is not one of our swirling bastions of controversy. And the church has been there since the late 1800s.  Stability. Quiet.  A good mix of retirees, who provide wisdom and stability, and young people who provide energy.  As you mentioned, I am under contract to write."\par
\par
"Yes, you are.  And I suppose such a peacable place may afford such opportunities, as in contrast, say, here, where pastors are drafted onto an interminable number of denominational committees, or avoid the episcopal mantle, or seek it, and there are politics?"\par
\par
"Yes.  I hate politics."\par
\par
"You may have something there," Dr. Leyden said more out of courtesy than anything else. 'However, I do not know who will read your books."\par
\par
"I am planning on writing some devotionals.  The book I am under contract for is for a devotional that explains Epper theology for the layman unfamiliar with the terms, among other things, centering everything on the Cross and on Christ."\par
\par
"A lay devotional? You?" \par
\par
Jake nodded.  Inwardly he thought of the pretensions of academia, the sometimes hollow theological debates, the political positioning, prestige and posturing.  He had seen academia, and his reaction was a profound, heartfelt, complete rejection. He had come to seminary to learn how to pastor, not climb the ladder of success in academia that, really, had only vanity at the top.  He did not dare express that to Dr. Leyden, whom he respected.\par
\par
"I had hoped for a systematic theology.  We sorely lack one that distinguishes us from anyone else.  I for one am tired of borrowing Calvin from the Presbyterians and Luther from the Lutherans and Wesley from the Methodists! A lay devotional is beneath your talents.  As is your decision."  Dr. Leyden did not know what else to say. There seemed to be no reaction.\par
\par
In a few years Jake would be solidly heavy in the Dutch way, what with the aggressive way Epper women gave their pastors food and made sure they ate it.  But he was still thin, athletic, tall, with an innocence about him that pastoral life in one of the more lethal settlements might soon destroy.  Some pastors were bitter, having discovered that the pastorate was not what had been promised.  It was remarkable that Jake had preserved that innocence despite having served as an amanuensis, in addition to classes taught and taken.  Somewhere in there he had taken time to marry. Perhaps...Could Jake really have chosen the right thing? Inconcievable.  Had Jake announced he was building a sailboat and was going to sail it to North Korea and found a church there, they would have cheered more than at this decision, one no one could accept or understand.  \par
\par
"I also believe that this is where God wants me to go," Jake said, and flushed.  Dr. Leyden thought about how that would look in certain circles. Had not Jake taken epistemology?  Taught it?  Surely this was no direct revelation in addition to the Scriptures, a false prophecy.  The canon was closed. Nor was this humble - Jake was so great that God would single him out for guidance?  How dare he.  Perhaps he was reading too much into it, was too angry, and time was now pressing. A simple rebuke and then on to other things. It could simply be the summary of a long consideration, but with this decision it was hardly rational. And not the sort of thing to say that was encouraged among sober, God-fearing Epper clergy.  It was more the sort of flightly thing a la-de-dah emotionally based wingnut would say, the sort a pastor was called to set straight and found on the rock of Christ, not their wafting impressions.  \par
\par
"That is perilous talk, as you know. On the edge if not over it.  However, I will let it go. I hope you return to your senses. Say no more. Romans 8:28," he told Jake after a minute,"May God go with you." He stood, they shook hands and Jake was dismissed. Dr. Leyden considered that God was everywhere. Even in Nicholls, Missouri. Dr. Leyden had no idea, and no interest, in where it was.   "Lord, help that poor boy," he prayed, and took up other matters. \par
\par
=========\lang1033\par

\pard\li720\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9  'Oh, really? So where did he serve? I know the Session was evaluating some candidates. He was never a Marine? Ever?'\par
David folded his newspaper onto his lap.  He had been half-listening even while reading the \i Epper Epistle\i0 . He had seen under 'new pastor candidates'  Jake Profim, Epper Church, Nicholls, Missouri,  the only 'Church', the rest 'Settlement', shwon, usually not stated as such because it was not needed.  It emphasized the stigma. A candidate pastor would try out, and be tried out, on a provisional basis for one to six months before the calling was firmed up in an agreement between the congregation, session, presbytery and the bishop.  Jake Profim?  The name sounded familiar, as if he had read on or about him.  Profim, Profim...Had he served with a Profim? He could not recollect the name in any of his units. \par
Evelyn came in and told David that Jake Profim had never been a Marine. Ever. He drew his breath.  This was something to get used to, as no pastor in Nicholls had ever not served in the Corps, and then seminary.  Some had served as officers, some as enlisted, some as Navy Chaplains. They had just buried Pastor Galloway, veteran of Belleu Wood, who had finally succumbed to injuries of that war, a brave and admired example of what it means to be a Christian and a warrior, bearing his injuries with a smile and never a complaint.  There was an article here on Jake Profim David showed Evelyn.  She hummed and said,"How can such an academically brilliant fellow fit in here?"\par
David shrugged. "Maybe he won't. Time will tell.  We will work it out as best we can. But between you and the fencepost, I wish I wasn't on sabbatical from Session.  I think the choice would have been different."\par
"I'm sure it would have been.  This is going to generate a lot of talk."\par
"Anytime a chicken lays an egg there is a lot of talk in this town. But yes, Evelyn, this is a matter of grave concern.  I'll have a talk with Clive privately about it."\par
"You do so, dear."\par
"Officially, of course, I am delighted he is coming and I hope everything works out. I will work on any other thoughts out of a sense of loyalty to my church.  But I have my doubts."\par
"Carla thought that is what you would say."\par
"Clive's wife knows me well. But then, she is also my sister."  For a minute he looked at the photograph of Chesty Puller and himself on the wall opposite, taken at Camp Lejeune November 10, 1954, eleven and a half years ago now. He was assisting the great man in cutting and distributing Marine Corps birthday cake. General Puller had looked right into his eyes and said,"Son, be sure this piece gets to Colonel Howell."  Ever since that moment, David had used the expression, 'be sure this piece gets to' whenever possible. The second time the General had spoken to him, he had said,"Son, you take over the cutting now." He had been so honored to follow in the great man's footsteps even for a moment. He was retired, now, somewhere back east. What would Chesty Puller do? And he had been called 'son' twice by Chesty Puller, which had made him a better Marine.  \par
David had served one hitch in the Marines in the relative quiet between the Korean conflict and now, what with this conflict in Viet Nam getting more serious. Six months as an embassy guard in Tokyo and six months as a rifleman at Camp Humphreys, South Korea was all of overseas he'd had, and he had not been invited to reenlist. There was some time training in Okinawa, too, he recalled. Then six months on board the U.S.S. Hornet, most of which was spent with the ship in dry dock.  They put out to sea for only a two-day sea trial while he was there, and he was transferred off two hours before they put out to sea, so he missed it.   \par
But what would Chesty Puller say?  The photograph said nothing, and David picked up his \i Epper Epistle \i0 and read avidly an article discussing three-way bartering. \par
=====\par
Bam. Bam.  The nail was going in slowly. Jake had searched the manse - not so much as a screwdriver, let alone a hammer or anything like a toolbox or what went into a toolbox. \par
Bam.  He'd found this rock.  Bam.  The nailhead had popped. Bam. Five seconds with a hammer and \par
"Pastor, let me do that for you," Sid said out of nowhere.  Sid was that member - every church has that member - who takes care of the buiding, knows the wiring, the plumbing, the last time the roof was fixed, in his time reglazed windows, installed carpeting, whatever - and Sid was suddenly here.  Jake pulled his rock back, and with one stroke the nail was home.\par
Jake stood up. "You don't need to do that."  But Sid was ear to the floor, sighting for other popups. He found one.\par
"Whatcha doing?" This was another member, whose name escaped him. \par
"Checking for popups," Sid said."  A minute later there were ten men with hammers, two ladders, boxes of nails and a lift arrived five minutes later to check the roof. They crawled all over the outside of the house.\par
"Glad to me of service, Pastor," they all said, tipped their hats and were gone in fifteen minutes.  His house had no popups, that was definite.  Jake wondered who some of them were, because he had not seen them in church.\par
Welcome to pastoring, Jake thought.\par
=====\par
"Everyone knows the only godly way to deal with clothes is to roll them," Mrs. Zimmermann was saying. She cast a hard eye at that defender of folded clothes, Dorothy Zukhov.  This was Jake's first encounter as a pastor with this sort of thing, which Eppers were prone to.  They had a passion for taking an extreme position on matters of custom and habit.  Jake remembered well a discussion on this very subject in the course on the Book of Romans, last spring.  Romans 14. He'd learned that like everyone else in town he was expected to grow most of his own food (as pastor he would receive a tithe of all food), that Nicholls was cash-only, and that there were very few laws. "Marines would only break them," he was told. The argument was it was more reasonable for someone to figure out what the proper speed was than to tell them, because then, more likely than not, they would ignore the sign.  And as a resident of Nicholls he was required to carry a loaded sidearm at all times.  There were very few laws, many customs, and an enormous number of idiosyncracies in what he had been told this very morning was "the ideal society", as opposed to society at large, which in this year of our Lord 1966 was coming apart at the seams.  Thank God they were in Nicholls, where nothing ever happened. Outside all manner of things were happening unimaginable a few years ago.  But here all was quiet. \par
The class on Romans was oriented towards pastors, with the assumption that they were all headed for settlements.  There was a concession that a very few of the students might, possibly pastor a church in a town, but that was remote. The emphasis was on settlement life.  Jake remembered Dr. Owens wagging his beard along with his finger. "Never ask them who made me judge over you! They will say God did! That is not seminary, that is real life!" Dr. Owens had been the pastor of a settlement while earning his doctorate, less of a feat because the settlement was the very one they were in at the time, and he was still the pastor.  That settlement boasted the seminary. Dr. Owens was still the pastor there - and also taught seminary classes. A priceless jewel of a man, always calm, considerate, humble, thoughtful. \par
"Laziness. That is what rolling is.  An offense against God and man.  You cannot put the same number of clothing items in the same space as when you fold them into neat, geometrically perfect squares and rectangles.  And the Marines do not roll, they fold." Dorothy offered the appeal to the Marines as a clinching argument.  Around here, whether the Marines did something a certain way or not might be unknown, but the speaker was always certain they were on the side of God and the USMC.  Jesus and the apostles would have been Marines, Jake had been told, but the Corps had not yet been created.\par
"Since you are new to Nicholls, your ignorance is pardonable," Dorothy said, smiling sweetly.  She flushed as well as she realized this pastor was also new to Nicholls.  Mrs. Zimmermann flushed slightly,"Mama taught me to roll clothes. And as a \i jongedamme\i0  I -" \par
"You were a \i jongedamme\i0 ? I didn't know anyone still did that. Really." This time Dorothy said it with affection.  \par
"Of course they still do it.  Among the German and the Dutch Eppers, certainly. I think the Russians have given it up.  Down in Oklahoma some do, some don't."\par
"Well, pardon me.  Now, Pastor, what should we do? Roll or fold?"\par
"You should both take a week to carefully study Romans 14."\par
"Romans 14? Are clothes discussed there?"\par
=======================================\par
This early morning in June Betsy brought coffee to Jake, who was enjoying the sunrise on the back porch. Betsy noticed he had been looking northeast more than anywhere else these last few days. She knew her husband was feeling the cost of what he had rejected.  He had no status in a town that thought status to be the derivative of the one and only United States Marine Corps, or secondarily of being a member of one of the old Nicholls families, or hard work, and it went unsaid that people thought a pastor only worked two hours on Sunday. \par
From his face she knew he had peace about the decision, but there was pain in that peace, a pain that was a cost that he would be paying for years.  He was a nobody here. He would never be anyone.  She also knew that power, prestige and postion were things that Jake coveted, although he had rejected them, yet that rejection came at an enormous cost.  It was the only way Jake could see saving his soul, to do this thing, and Betsy backed him up on it as his loyal wife.  She would have liked to have been the wife of the powerful, riding along on its benefits, and so there was a cost to her.  But she had not married him for political power but because he was a godly man.  She realized now if he had accepted the offer for a pastorate cum doctorate she would have liked him less, and she would be calculating her personal clout and power and urging him on to more power, prestige, a higher profile and recognized greatness.\par
So this was shared sacrifice, and each understood the other.\par
"I love you," she said simply, and gave him a kiss with the coffee. He relaxed and brightened. "The sunrises are bigger out here than in Michigan."\par
"It's the little things in life that are the greatest," she replied.\par
=======================================\par
Jake looked at the check that had come in the mail. He then picked up his personal copy of  \i Intimacy in the Assembly of the Righteous\i0 , and divided the amount by the number of pages.  $375 a page, and sales were pickiing up.  He would get another royalty check in another month, but this one, $75,000, was more, a lot more, than he was making as pastor, here where he was paid in free housing, chickens, and fresh vegetables. Sometimes a melon.  "A stunning success!" was in the letter, and some position in the \i New York Times\i0 ' best seller book. This was the book he had agreed to write while still in seminary, which he was graduated from only six weeks ago. \par
Two problems.  One was that the book was becoming popular outside of Epper circles.  That always met with disapproval among Eppers, on the theory that popular and the wide road that leads to destruction were synonymous. Who the hippies were, and why his book had become so popular among, them, was a puzzle. He had become aware that there were many Christians who were not Epper.  In coming to Nicholls his world had widened. He expected he would be discussing this aberration with the bishop.\par
A pair of self-described hippies had shown up for Divine Liturgy Sunday in their jeans and hair.  They had gushed about the book incoherently in what seemed to be English but not English as he understood it.  Hopefully that would be the end of that sort of thing.\par
The second problem was that it was more than likely that $75,000 was more money than anyone had on hand in Nicholls, more than the bank could handle.  In Nicholls everyone used cash, when they were not bartering, trading, negotiating, haggling, in many ways like a cashless Epper settlement, and so cash was scarce.  Nothing was owned by anyone outside of town. Nothing was a branch business of something else. Everything was Nicholls-owned and operated Epper style, which meant cash exchanged hands only when absolutely unavoidable.  Usually he himself was paid in produce, chickens and the occaisional sheep, and to live there he had entered into the highy complex and completely unwritten barter system. A settlement this size might have an administrator to organize it, but Nicholls had none. They had a \i mayor \i0 who was \i elected \i0 by the people, which smacked suspiciously of democracy to Jake.  But that was \i the American Way. \i0 The county government was subsumed into the city, as there were very few people in the county.  So the mayor could be found out grading a gravel road in the far corners of the eastern half of the county or clearing brush from a culvert as much as meeting with people.  The town and church and county simply didn't have the resources to hire an administrator, and no one was sure whether one should work for the church or the city.  He, however, was never allowed to do any manual work "Here, pastor, let me do that for you," when he had started driving in some nails on his house that had worked loose.  He was allowed to pray and preach and eat.  Currently spice cakes, fresh-baked each day, were showing up from different families.  \par
Better to bank this outside Nicholls. So off he went to Harrisonville and opened an account at Johnson Bank.  The friendly account manager asked him where the money was from, if he might ask. Jake offhandedly told him he had struck it rich. He'd found a gold mine.  He did not mean it literally, he explained to the astonished account manager, who had picked up the phone to dial someone, but explained he had written a book.  The teller said something and hung up.  Jake began telling him about the book but he wasn't that interested.\par
Jake left and did not see the account manager called into the bank president's office, where every word of their conversation was examined, a transcript was taken, and they went over it again and again.  \i He lives in Nicholls, and he found a gold mine.\i0  \par
====================\par
"Looks like we got us a famous writer here."\par
"Why don't you tell the famous writer that people in Nicholls don't care for Nicholls to be called 'a sleepy, introverted, backwards, paranoid little dying village full of Marine veterans,' even if we have a famous writer who had been on three different magazine covers even though he just got here?"\par
"He's been here three months."\par
 "Have you been over there to hear him preach?"\par
"No."\par
"He's good. I mean, really, really good. You should give a listen."\par
"Really?"\par
"Yep."\par
"Okay, I'll be there Sunday."\par
===========================\par
Now Vera was sick.  Jake had not caught her last name.  She lived alone in the old Adams house, a sprawling place.  Once upon a time the Adams had had twenty or more kids, and had kept adding on, and then installing relatives and friends in need of a place to live.  Then the Adams had died, and the relatives and friends had moved on. That was years ago.  Vera was all that was left of them, and of the Adams, and there was concern in town, as Vera was not a spring chicken. She had a daughter, and her daughter had a daughter.  Vera's daughter was said to be a looker, but she had moved away from Nicholls years ago and visited Mom once or twice a year, towing her daughter along.  \par
People were right, Jake thought - the exterior maintenance needed some attention. He stood outside the house, looking at it.  Vera had asked the pastor to come over and pray with her.  Betsy was also sick, and he had decided to come alone.  Now, outside the house, he questioned that.  Vera was always to be found in the front row, on the left, three spaces down.  She was of indeterminate but advanced age, which she attempted to hide with makeup and perfume.  She also dressed a lot younger than she was, and there was something about the way she always held Jake's hand and gushed over the sermon after church that had prompted Betsy to warn him that here was trouble.  Betsy did not know he was over here, and it seemed now like that was an error.  But the woman was sick, and a pastor was a pastor. He took a deep breath and walked up the path, up the steps, and knocked on the door.\par
"Vera?" he called, as the door swung open.  Nobody locked doors here, so it was not surprising.\par
"It's unlocked," came her voice from somewhere in the house. "Pastor Profim?"\par
"Yes," he said.  He pushed down his rising discomfort.\par
"Come on in," she said.\par
"How about we meet on the porch?"\par
"Oh, don't be such a fuddy-duddy," Vera said,"Here I am sick in bed and you won't come see me. Pastor Galloway used to come see me, and thought nothing of it."\par
"I'm not Pastor Galloway. I don't think I should."\par
"Why not? You think an old woman like me is going to seduce you on her sick bed?" Jake heard part of a giggle from a much younger woman -instantly shushed- Vera was not alone.\par
"And the doctor comes and visits me.  He is a nice doctor.  And Pastor Galloway was such a nice pastor. He visited me all the time. Alone."\par
"That was him, and this is me. Sorry. If you would like prayer, either come down to the front porch. That, or I will find someone to come with me."\par
"Really?"\par
"Yes. Really."\par
"You S.O.B!" this was from she who had giggled, now appearing. She was stunningly attractive and underdressed, with her hair long and loose and her face made up. She glared at Jake, red-faced and fist-clenched. It was an odd contrast.  He backed up and felt for the first step.\par
Something was said from the other room, followed by "Nora!"\par
"Mother!" this young person said to the someone Jake could not see. But he was already off the porch and headed for the street.  There was yelling between the two - something about an expensive camera. More yelling.  It subsided after a few minutes.\par
Vera did not ask for him to come again. Nor was she in church again. Jake was not surprised to learn that Pastor Galloway had never visited there alone. From then on Jake never visited anyone alone. Ever.     \par
===========================\par
"Two-a-pound apples for three-a-pound of your turnip greens," Boaz Smith said, eying the customer."\par
"Bit low there. You gave Mr. Brean two-and-half apples for the same this morning." \par
"I'm now full on turnip greens. I'll throw in some paper goods. How about a roll of paper towels?"\par
"Three rolls, and a package of toilet paper."\par
"The good kind or the cheap?"\par
"Cheap is find.  No la-dee-dee scented stuff, particularly if you shave us elsewhere."\par
"No shaving.  Done deal."\par
"I've got carrots upcoming," he said,"Next week."\par
"Finest kind?"\par
The customer sighed. "They lack some promise."\par
"Don't bring them in.  Eat them yourself. It's hard to find a market for them right now. What else are you growing?"\par
"Big tomatoes - they are a-ripening. Sunflowers. Corn looks good. Watermelons."\par
"Perfect." The farmer left the store with his apples and paper towels, happy.  The store threw in a package of toilet paper because they were running out of space.  You always took toilet paper, because sometimes the grocery was out of it for weeks.  The store was big on excess produce, mostly traded elsewhere for goods Nicholls did not grow, such as canning supplies, paint, soap, fabric, hard goods and soft goods both. Jake enjoyed going there - on the settlement he had grown up on they had called such a place the clearing-house, because that is where one traded food for things, and Jake always brought some of the tithe there in order to get things they needed. You never knew what they were going to have, but you had to have something to trade.  They did not use cash, just like a settlement. And Boaz Smith was just like the proprietor of the clearing house Jake grew up with - speaking calmly but rapidly all day long, making deal after deal.  His name was not Boaz - the proprietor of a clearing house was always called Boaz.  People would compare the deals they got and the Boaz was always the most strictly just person in town, because everything he did was watched by everyone in town.  He did business, after all, just about every day with everyone in town. And his three sons traded in the same way with three Epper settlements and with a regular, American grocery store that accepted fruit and vegetables from Nicholls in exchange for goods.\par
Just like home.  Jake felt perfectly at home here.  It might be a town, not a settlement, and there were non-Eppers here, with whom you could have curious conversations, but the overall feel was that of an Epper settlement.  Except for the Marine flavor.\par
===========================\par
If the letter had not mentioned horses in the first line Jake would have tossed it.  Horses. While the letter admitted they actually had not visited the place, it had cast a picture in his mind of sleek horses racing through the tall green grass in front of a ruined Italian-style abbey.  He thought of \i the Black Stallion\i0 , a childhood favorite.  Attorneys representing an assembly of people up in Minnesota had written him on their who said they were the owners of the western half of Nicholls County - the old Mueller Ranch, long deserted - and they were offering him ownership of the forty acres where the old Prisoner of War Camp was, the land the Benedictines had used, including their now-abandoned abbey in its need of some modest maintenance, in appreciation and gratitude for his first book.  Would he accept the offer?\par
Open land. He could run horses on it.  Something he had always wanted to do.  Horses. A ranch. A real ranch.  So he read and re-read the letter.  Off he went to the County Land Office, where records were kept, and indeed that assembly of people owned the land they said they did, and the area on the map in the letter matched the official records.  Was this a scam?  The County Assessor said no.  They wanted one dollar to seal the deal. It had taken a lot more than that to put it together.  They would pay all fees to transfer it into his name.  \par
He was reluctant to send a check from his Harrisonville account. Nicholls Bank, peculiarly, didn't offer personal checks, as everything was done without cash if at all possible, and with cash in Nicholls if it must be so, and anything else they would write a cashier's check for you, with lots of comments and the news always got around town. It was only a dollar, after all, that was involved. Processing the check would take some time, what with different states and who knew what.  So he folded a dollar in half, signed the forms in front of notary Marge, who told him she regarded everything she did there to be confidential, and she sat three rows back, on the right, on Sunday mornings, and Marge signed and sealed the papers right then and there in the Land Office, noting such in her notary book, and Jake mailed the now-sealed envelope containing the right forms and the dollar to Minneapolis at the Post Office, handing them to Gretchen the Grim, who clearly resented anyone actually having mail to go out.  She was not a member of the Nicholls Epper Church, and told him so, as she knew him by sight and that he was the pastor.  Her main occupation was working on people to stop getting mail delivered to their homes and businesses and instead use a box for a small fee.  After you gave in and got the box, she then started in on attempting to reduce the amount of mail you generated and received. There was too much of it, in her view, way too much waste of paper. Very much an Epper in her obsession with thrift and no waste.  Too much mail. Jake heard it for ten minutes, the usual time, and left.  She had talked him into a box for the home and one for the church, but he was considering getting the mail at home.\par
"Don't do that," Clive had told him,"If you do, you'll have to go up to Archie or down to Audrain or something to get your mail, because she will give you a piece of paper that says she has mail for you that cannot be delivered. You will have to go in and show ID and proof of residency every time you want a piece of mail.  The best thing you can do is to only use one box and get another one up in Audrain. That's what most people do. You cannot fight the United States Post Office, and Gretchen is the Postmaster." Clive was on the Session.  Jake was surprised to find that in this church he was clerk of session - politically then the church had fallen out of the Epper balance between the elders and the pastor into a hierarchial system.  Galloway had liked it that way, but it was something to be corrected. \par
One week later the forms came back, and Marge showed him the assessor's map with his name on that property.  He had still not been out there to see it - he had a strange reluctance to do so.  He had a lot of other duties to do, and this was just a side fantasy.  He imagined running horses through the tall grass prairie, and his initial visit was continually postponed. The buildings the Benedictines had left "in need of some minor repair", as the letter stated, were also out there.  He imagined the stone chapel lovingly built by the Italian prisoners soaring into the sky, like St. Peter's, surrounded by tall grass, and the other, matching buildings: he'd seen pictures of abbeys and imagined something of the sort was out there.  It would require some taking in, but between writing and pastoring his schedule was full. He'd been told there was a gate, anyway, so no one would bother it.\par
He was also afraid there were a lot of statues, and he would have to decide what to do.  Iconoclasm was in the Epper past, but perhaps asking the Catholics to come and get them would be a reasonable request? And if they refused? He did not want to ask them to do anything.  Everyone told him Father Don had been a wonderful human being and they had probably taken everything, anyway.  He found himself making excuses as to why he was not going out there.  He was not altogether comfortable with it, with owning a Catholic abbey, with owning so much land.  It could easily be a diversion from his pastoral duties.  Even in a little quiet town they took a great deal of time. Then there was the writing, the praying, his fast-days, sermon preperation and counseling. And there were newcomers.  Betsy also had taken sick, that nausea some women get in earlier pregnancy.  Widow Galloway was still in town and kindly stepped into the role of \i pani\i0 , leading the women's Bible study, organizing meals for the sick, the church decorating committee, and all the other women's ministries. Widow Galloway was also pushing for a \i jongedamme\i0  program, which her husband had, for unknown reasons, forbidden.  \par
He still had not visited the land when his second book, \i God's Word: Grain, Fire and Hammer\i0  came out, and another letter from Minnesota.  Was he interested in the rest of the land? A second dollar went off to Minnesota and he turned his attention to other things. His second book was a best-seller for over a year on Christian markets and was rated one of the best works of the 1960s. Comparisons to C.S.Lewis were frowned on by the Eppers because Lewis was too ecumenical and was thought sympathetic to Hellenistic thought more than he should have been.  And anything "popular" was probably suspect, as the bishop made very clear to Jake in a painful interview. But the Epper Nicholls Church had record attendance that summer and fall, between visitors and people who joined because of Pastor Profim, and Jake seemed to bring only good things to the church.  He was a dynamic speaker and his sermons were regularly printed in Epper publications - some were even translated into German, Russian, Epper-Dutch and Cherokee.  \par
He also found he had to be careful, because the Committee on Docrinal Purity was reviewing everything he published.  He received a letter every few months with a 'Dear Pastor: It has come to our attention that you wrote....,' and he would have to explain how some sentence, picked out at random, conformed to Epper thought.  He did not like finding himself self-editing to avoid those letters from the CDP, but it was a fact of life. Answering these would be time-consuming because there would be upwards of a hundred questions he had to carefully craft answers to, lest he trigger an investigation. \par
Regular pastoral duties, interviews with somewhat suspicious members of the presbytery and the bishop, interviews with news media, offers from other publishers, fan mail (which he often answered), visitors to the church and invitations from unchurched people in Nicholls occupied his time.  He owned half the county but had never been out there.  He thought of the tall prairie grass around that beautiful abbey and smiled. He would get out there.  \par
Here was a letter from the Committee on Doctrinal Purity.  He had feared it until he opened it.  He was invited to serve on it.  He drafted a reply that his pastoral duties precluded serving, but thanks anyway.  And here was another letter, requesting he join the Institute on Epper-Dutch.  There were so many anglicizations in Epper-Dutch, and so many were now speaking English, that people were concerned that it would disappear in another generation, and with it much of Epper cultural history. That one he need not reply to immediately.  Catalogs on vestments, communion ware, pre-written sermons, a letter regarding funeral arrangements, another about retirement vesting 'in the settlement of your choice', correspondence with Doctor Langdon, former Professor of Latin and History at sem, who had abandoned God and converted to Catholicism, correspondence with a Doctor Retti, who had converted FROM Catholicism and wanted to know some details of Epper theology, correspondence with Dr. Milton, former professor of hermenutics, who had abandoned the Eppers for Lutheranism, and correspondence with Dr. Kurzenfeld, former professor of church government, who had converted to Presbyterianism, and letters from people who had read something he had written and solicited his advice, asked for help, or thanked him, and he felt he had to personally answer every one. Then there was presbytery business, and the bishop gave him work.  It was taking up more and more time. \par
=========================\par
"Heard you went to see Vera," her neighbor said.\par
"She asked me to come.  But I did not go in."\par
"True.  Three people saw you on her porch.  If you'd gone in, that would be the talk of the town."\par
"Why?"\par
"Small town. Loves gossip.  And there is no gossip like about the pastor. Pastor Galloway steered clear of Vera.  And her daughter."\par
"Oh."\par
"Did you know that your first visit here was the first one for her in a long, long time? She didn't even come to Pastor Galloway's funeral. Seems she was coming to church just for you."\par
"Really."  All those compliments. False.  He had thought so, but everyone, including himself, loves praise. It didn't really matter, though.  But it felt like it did.\par
"That woman is a train wreck.  And so is her daughter. Word to the wise."\par
"Thanks."\par
"Don't mention it."\par
-------\par
"Probably worth more if you burn everything down," Clive said.  Hands in his pockets, he wrinkled his nose and looked in the old dispensary. "Stinks, too."  The broken glass from the windows was scattered across the floor and there were holes in the walls.  Someone had ripped out the wiring - you could see where it had been in cables coming down the walls, and there were chains here and there from where overhead lights had once hung.  A few scattered bottles, cigarette butts and other evidence of human habitation were there as well.  One corner of the main room boasted a giant wasp's nest. Beyond it they could see the collapsed ceiling of the main room of the infirmary, at one time a hospital ward and probably the monastic dormitory.  That room was vacant except for pools of water from the recent rains. In big letters on the outside was spray painted "F--- You Jake Profim".  He thought of Vera.  But she had left town not long ago.  This was maybe more recent.  And it didn't seem like her. This was a direct offence; Vera seemed to be more into seduction.  But maybe her daughter...\par
"Not exactly what I was expecting," Jake said. He looked at a baseball bat lodged in what was left of one wall.  Someone had been using it to smash through the walls - there was a long series of jagged openings, the last one with the bat jammed in it, sticking out at an odd angle. He looked at the nearest window.  The glass had been broken out since the last rain, judging from the fresh wood where glass had been. It was lodged fairly high.  A woman could not have done this, unless she was tall and very strong.  Vera's daugter could not have.  He needed to stop thinking of them.  \par
"Waste of a good bat."   Jake shrugged.  This bat-damage was recent, like since the last rain, he realized.   \par
"Last time I saw buildings this bad was in Korea. But no artillery shells hit this compound."  He reminded Jake again that he had served both in World War 2 in the Pacific and again in Korea.  He had retired from the Marines and moved to Nicholls three years ago.  Jake was not sure what the obscure rule here was that any retired Marine officer joining the church automatically became an elder, but there it was in the unstated rules.  In most city churches if you are a doctor or lawyer some you automatically become an elder, but here it was Marine officers. The doctors at the hospital rotated in and out, clinic-style, and the two lawyers in town were neatly hated, one by one half of the town, and the other by the other half of the town.  There was talk of electing a county judge, but it was likely it would be one of them, and so someone came down from Cass County or up from Bates County or over from Henry County on those rare occaisions when a trial was called for.  But Nicholls was mostly peaceful, and people liked to settle matters themselves. Besides, there were very few laws.  "Laws are for breaking. Men of sense don't need them. We are free." was the sentiment.  In a town that required one to wear a loaded sidearm, disagreements were politely and carefully resolved. Jake was sometimes called on as a negotiator or even an arbitrator.\par
"Most of the men in town were in Korea, except for Brown.  He was medical in World War 2, so he didn't get tapped again."\par
"Really," Jake had thought that they were unusually trim.  Part of Nicholls culture was the 5AM Run/Walk - those who could, ran. Everyone else walked. He understood it was all year around, including the winter, unless Nicholls was a sheet of ice. It got Jake off his chair, anyway, and mixing with the people.  Betsy was now heavy with child and so was excused, but some pregnant women were out there every morning.  "I noticed you and Mr. Pfingster seem to have some disagreement. Would you mind telling me what that is about?"\par
Clive hesitated. "I don't like to talk about a man not present.  He is a decorated Marine. I'm guessing he has been here for years and has never been nominated for elder, and I come and sail right in.  I'm an officer, he's enlisted.  I was in Logistics, he was front-line."\par
"Did you ever run into each other - over there?"\par
"Not to my knowledge.  But Logistics was hardly rear-echelon.  I was shelled on Guadalcanal every night for a while.  We got blamed by the troops present because most of the supplies and men had to leave due to the Jap fleet showing up.  So there were shortages.  We made up some of it by finding the Jap food supplies.  But everyone was down to two meals of wormy rice a day for a while. The flies... And then..I was on the beach at Iwo when the Jap artillery started up.  That was a slaughterhouse. There were shells all around me.  I still can't stand fireworks. I should have been killed. I hugged the sand.  They missed me."\par
"Does Mr. Pfinngster know that?"\par
"He doesn't talk about the war - he's bottled it up, like a lot of the guys.  I doubt he would ever stick around for a discussion, either. He and I are polite enough, when we meet, but we can usually be found at the opposite ends of a room if we are in the same one."\par
"I may be new at this pastoring thing, but I hope you're doing your best to get along there."\par
Clive nodded. "Yep."  \par
Korea was fourteen years ago but for Clive he was still there somehow; Jake listened as Clive told, once again, of surviving Japanese shelling of Henderson Field on Guadalcanal and drinking oily water on Pelileu.  He'd been rotated back to the States after that and had served at Parris Island in supply He got pulled back suddenly for Iwo Jima, then Okinawa. Duty in China. Camp Lejeune. Camp Pendleton. Surviving the downsizing of the Corps. Quiet years.  Then Korea. Inchon.   Medical evacuation. Rehab. Desk duty and once again supplying incoming Marines, this time officer candidates at Quantico, as well as contract administration for some facilities improvements there, at LeJeune and Parris Island.  He'd spent two weeks in Hawaii at Camp H.M.Smith and the Pearl City Warehouse Annex.  He'd taken two weeks leave there after the meetings and thought of Hawaii as an overpriced dump. A two week waste of time.  \par
This place did not rise to that level of dump, though, he commented to Jake. The remaining buildings were widely scattered.  Jake noted that there were few hints that there had ever been other buildings here.  Jake thought in all likelihood there had been other buildings used for the hospital - that one building was simply too small. They were all torn down, Clive said.  Still, it was a dump. \par
It was a walk to the next building. It wasn't his fault the drinking water was shipped out in drums they hadn't cleared the gasoline out of on Pelileu. Jake heard it again.  Amtracs were still burning when Clive had landed and they were evacuating wounded. He heard artillery shells and saw Navy fighters come in and return to their carriers. He was rear echelon but not by much. Jake had never heard artillery rounds go off all around his position.  Clive pointed out that Jake's settlement might be under Japanese management if it were not for the Corps. At least all the buildings were all at the east end of this huge, flat, empty area. It was a long way to anything that could be called tall grass. Each structure stood by itself, hundreds of feet from the nearest other building, an archipelago in a sea of flat rock, the far corners being about a half mile apart east to west and a quarter mile north to south. A strange set of islands, in that they all were on an unseen grid.  Walls were all parallel or perpendicular to each other with perfect military precision. \par
"What was this?"\par
"I think it was the commander's quarters. Commanding officer? Base commander?"\par
"Could be. I'm not sure what the right title was. This was Army. I'm a Marine."\par
"Look, Pastor. Daylight." Clive pointed upward through the door, as if Clive doubted that the Pastor got the point that these buildings were unusable and the place was a you-know-what.  Pastor Profim nodded.  They did not enter but were just looking every building from the outside.  Closer inspection would come later on subsequent visits.  He just wanted to know what was out here. The shaft of light was coming not only through the roof, but through the second floor or attic.  There was a recently-dried puddle under it, the rock-and-concrete floor a darker gray. The walls had been very thin plywood on studs. In places they were rotted through and you could see into, and in a few places, through the building. Tar paper roofs had somehow stayed in place, mainly.  But the roof trusses held rot and looked about ready to fall down.\par
"From this window you can see into the kitchen - all the plumbing's been ripped out. Them monks, probably."\par
"Do you know that?"\par
"Well, no."\par
"Lots of people could have done it."\par
Clive shrugged. "Wiring's gone, same as the other buildings.  And that smell - someone used it as a latrine, and not too long ago." It was the only building formerly with a ceiling. "Do you want to look inside? Outside only. Ri-ight."\par
Jake shook his head.  He pointed - someone had torn another hole down through the floor from the attic, or they had fallen through from up there.  Probably treasure hunters.\par
"I guess it was cheaper to just have rock floors.  They were in a real hurry back in the war."\par
"Not much lumber around here. They saved themselves a penny or two. But I don't think the prisoners could have dug down through solid rock and escaped."\par
Jake would have to get a building inspector out here before he was willing for anyone to actually enter anything besides the stone chapel. All this work would cost a lot of money, money he didn't have.  It was not surprising the Benedictines had abandoned it.  There were no statues, anyway, or anything suggesting anything religious, or even useful: just the bare bones of these buildings. Nothing suggested it had ever been Catholic, except for the chapel.  That, anyway, was a relief. \par
These projects would be time consuming.  Jake thought about calling a carpenter-type he knew, but Paul was still candidating, trying to find a church or settlement. Paul was probably discouraged and Jake would be rubbing in his own success, or seeming to. \par
"Is it stable?" The cross-shaped stone chapel stood there in all its graffitti and emptiness, surrounded by stony ground, larger than the church in Nicholls.  Clive pushed on the stone, which did not budge. They backed up and walked around the chapel, looking for cracks.  By some trick of the eye the other buildings looked very far away, thousands, not hundreds, of feet, under the high sky on the level area.  It made you feel very, very small.  The chapel looked sturdy enough. Tar paper flapped in the breeze from the roof.  But it was soldily and carefully built if on a much smaller scale than Notre Dame.\par
"Did they have stained glass?" \par
Jake shrugged.  The stone walls certainly had enough room for plenty of windows. But the large round hole high at the far end was not a complete circle - the builders had not completed their work.  Likewise there was no stone across the tops of the side windows; you could see the roof lumber at the top of the window hole.\par
"They wanted it taller," Jake muttered.  Where could he find stone masons who could do such work?  No mortar had been used and the stones were set so close together he doubted you could thrust a blade of grass in any crack you chose. Masons to match this work could probably only be found in Italy. He hated the idea of tearing it down, but he could not afford to maintain it or finish it. Lord, have mercy, he prayed silently.\par
"It's only fifteen feet high. In Logistics I learned to eyeball distances accurately. That's fifteen feet."\par
Jake Profim entered the doorway at the foot of the cross and walked up the pewless aisle. Once again someone had used one of these buildings as a latrine.  It was worse that they had so used a chapel, Roman or not. He stopped halfway up.\par
"What?" Clive, a foot or so behind Jake, almost ran into his outstretched arm.\par
"Snake. Look, there he goes."  They watched the large rattlesnake slither along the wall and vanish over a windowsill.\par
"Better watch your step around here.  But that wasn't a yellow-tail, now was it?"\par
Jake shook his head. "I thought the bad ones had yellow heads, anyway. It did not stand its ground. And those are only in the woods, aren't they?"\par
"If you see one, it's too late. That is what I heard. Maybe that one was a yellow-belly. Hah!"\par
They walked up to where the altar had been.  Someone had put a new stone in its place, and there were bones. \par
"Human?" Clive asked grimly.  He always assumed the worst.  Jake shook his head. "Looks like some small animal, maybe a rabbit.  Maybe they were just cooking it." He pointed to the ash.\par
"Doing it there is a little ... odd," Clive said,"Right where the altar used to be."\par
Jake nodded.  The chapel, obviously once a beautiful work of art, had been defiled not only by the graffitti, much of it obscene, but by this. A pentagram had been painted before the stone with the ashes, and black, burned down candle wax showed where candles had stood at the points of the paint.  "it also needs a whole new roof."\par
"It just needs a roof," Clive muttered.  There was less of it covered than open to the sky.  Jake understood what the pentagram was, but it was clear to him that Clive did not. That was just as well. The old roof had been some kind of tar paper stapled to laths - not too sturdy.  The wind had searched out and exploited weaknesses.  That roof, what remained of it, was not long for the world. \par
"What would you use this for?" Clive wanted to know.  They were now back outside, looking at the other four remaining buildings. None of them looked all that salvageable. They'd seen the quarry fulll of junk and garbage at the west end of the long flat area, which Clive had prounced to be "a real dump". Some mounds of dirt stood south of where they were, and the foundations of the old water tower were to the north - the tank itself probably removed by the Army.  They could not imagine the Benedictines doing it.  They had heard the Italians had built some low walls, but they saw none. "We have a building for our church already - one most folk can just walk to.  People would have to drive out here.  I never heard of any Epper, ever, driving to church.  I would say this would seat two hundred people or so. So, again, what would you use it for?"\par
Jake shrugged.  "Maybe a refuge from big city life in Nicholls."\par
"Right. Nicholls. Big city life. Two hundred adults - about the size of Nicholls. The whole town could fit in here. Without kids, of course."\par
Epper families tended to be large.  A woman who only had ten children was a rarity in Nicholls. When Eppers counted people, it was only people old enough to marry, the married, widowed and that other rarity, the single adult. "Well, first we would have to put in some doors and windows, and make sure there are no snake holes.  I wonder how common snakes are out here."\par
The old cabin was even worse.  In front of it there were two long-dead trees lying on their sides. \par
"Probably just rotten wood," Clive said.  He kicked the north one lightly, just a tap, and sawdust just flew. "Hey. It's coming apart." \par
"Just leave it, Clive."  They looked at the cabin.  It had had a porch all around vertical wall posts.  Part of the roof had fallen in, allowing daylight through most of it. Uninhabitable.  Piles of debris in the corners might have held more snakes.  The barn was dangerous to even enter, and there was an old outhouse and the fallen-down remnants of an old chicken coop and maybe some other buildings, all grey wood, twisted with the weather, ready to fall apart, some logs missing.  It was remarkable that there was anything left. But inside the barn and in and around the house, and in a few other sheltered places, enough soil had hidden itself to sprout some determined, scrawny grasses in clumps, along with bull thistle and a few other spiny weeds that Jake could not identify. Aside from that the house was windswept and had had a stone floor - most of the blocks were now missing and dirt showed through where there was no growth. Something suggested the ground level around the cabin had once been higher - the cabin posts were on exposed rock and even now, after all these years, there were stains that suggested they had been sunk through two feet of soil. Likewise the barn and the other buildings, islands at low tide in the sea of rock. \par
"We might as well just burn it all.  It's a hazard."\par
"Probably historically significant.  Besides, these buildings may be off my forty acres. I'm not sure where the line is."\par
"It's all yours now, isn't it."\par
Jake slowly turned around.  He was not used to the idea.  And he really had no use for this noman's land, this desert, this empty place. \par
=====\par
The old church basement was full of laughter.  These were not Eppers, with their somber clothing out of another century and serious demeanor, solemn, counting the days until death and judgement, but rather young people, long haired, all of them, with women invariably straight-haired to the waist, the men's hair somewhat shorter but not by much, and beards. Lighthearted, frivolous people.  Well, Jake had a beard.  He was not much older, but his hair was short and he only wore black.  They thought that was "cool".\par
They loved Jesus but they did not know Who He was.  This class was Basic Christianity, or How To Walk With God.  It was now held every Tuesday night and Jake was considering a second section on Thursdays.  They were interested in the person and work of Jesus Christ, and instead of stolid systematic theology Jake was going through the Gospel of John and its claims.  Sometimes dialog arose, as on whether weed was okay, or LSD, and Jake learned from them as much as they did from him.  These brought their friends, and there were a few adult baptisms every week.  The old Eppers disliked this because of the obligation of bringing these ones up in the faith, and one should count the cost of a tower before one builds.  They just seemed like a lot of work. But paring a young, free-spirited happy soul with a dour old ex-Marine Epper was not something Jake could see.  The Eppers and the Jesus People lived in two separate worlds side by side. But the young folk loved the communal living, the non-money, anti-capitalistic outlook of the Eppers, as it tied in with their own viewpoint, although they hesitated at the hard work.  Quite a few were absorbed, though, into the Nicholls Epper society and took on Epper ways, going so far as to adopt Epper clothing, speech and conduct.  They were studying their Greek like any small child with their Epper families, and learning to work as hard as the Eppers worked. Others were taking up Epper-Dutch, that strange dialect of Dutch that had gone its own way from the Dutch of the late sixteenth century and was infused with koine and Hebrew terms and syntax. \par
These meetings began with a God-bless, where everyone asked God what he or she should bring, and they ate, usually with a few people playing guitar.  Then someone would give a testimony, and then Jake would teach.  He was a born teacher, but they stretched him because they knew absolutely no Epper technical theological terms, and little to nothing about Christianity.  And some, strangely enough, had been brought up in church but had never learned anything.  He gave it to them in simple and clear language. Some never returned, because Jake believed there should be accountablility and one must work. 'He who does not work, neither let him eat,' was a favorite Epper verse, and the young people found scant freeloading in Nicholls.  Some worked - there was always work to be done in exchange for food or shelter - and managed to bridge the deep gulf between Epper and what-ever-they-were before they came to Nicholls. The meetings often lasted until two in the morning, and Jake made a point of making the 5 AM run/walk, so he took a several hour siesta after lunch.   \par
Jake made many trips out to his property alone that July.  So much had happened; not so long ago he had been in seminary without clear direction. Now he had a church and this land, and his wife was heavy with their first.  It was quiet.  The buildings spoke of a busy past.  They seemed to stand there, waiting for someone to come along and fix them.  It was amazing how they had deteriorated in such a short time.  He wished he could get someone to come live out here and watch the buildings.  As pastor he was needed in town. He often asked God,"Who, Lord?" He never seemed to get any answer to that one.  If it happened, it would happen in God's time. \par
He never saw whoever it was who had desecrated the chapel, and there were no new desecrations.  He met no one out there. But he would sometimes scan the horizon, as if expecting to see someone looking at him from there.  The sense of being watched was sometimes strong, and he would lock his truck - locking your truck was unheard of, and maybe even illegal,  in Nicholls - and walk around all the buildings as if he was going to find someone, right hand over his opened holster.  He never did.  He was tempted to bring someone else along.  It was kind of embarrassing.  But what could he do with this? He spent time out there asking God what the purpose was and what he was supposed to do with the land.  But he never felt he got anything of an answer on these trips.  \par
One day he was walking around the south edge of the flat area, far away from all the buildings.  There was scrub grass and those mounds of dirt to the south, and beyond that, he knew, was the area called Snake Woods.  \par
"Why should God listen to your prayers?" he suddenly thought. "God doesn't want to pay you any attention. Don't even bother him." It was his thinking-voice, his inner narrative.  But he never thought like that. It was a strong thought, almost like physical blow, and with it came a sense of alienation and abandonment.  He felt small and alone out there on the wind-whipped prairie, under that oversized sky.  He sucked in his breath.  "Because I am a child of God to whom He gave the gifts of life, faith, justification, and hope, the promises, and much else," he answered himself.  He felt his answers were weak and insubstantial. "God, I need your help. Jesus, help me answer this," he prayed, as was his habit when confronted with difficult situations.  God had never let him down.  God had always come through, and always would.  And the feeling and the thought lifted: he recognized it was false. "What a crazy thought," he said to himself, but he was glad of the reminder that God was true. \par
"You need to come south to the woods," he thought to himself. "They are worth exploring. Come to me, come to me, come to me," the thoughts said, and they were beating on him now from the outside, even if it sounded like his own voice, but it was persuasive, reasonable.  It would be foolish not to go south and look at these woods that everyone said was so dangerous.  Probably there were no snakes. He could rest in the shade.  Up here on the sun-drenched rock it was hot, but there it would be cool and there was probably water to drink, and beautiful birds in the trees.  Beautiful birds.  He could see them wheeling above something unseen down there. In his mind's eye he saw a flowing creek under shady trees, and there was a harp there. Flute music from a reed-flute.  The harp was an old Hebrew-style harp, and the flute was a five-pipe.  It was a simple, lilting tune, played over and over. There was a sweet smell like clover and honey, and the breeze was cool, soft, inviting. He could swim in the creek. There were horses running in the fields to the south. He could take off his clothes and swim in the creek, in the cool waters.  And there might be beautiful river daughters, naiads, who would take him down, down, deep in the waters to their beds...\par
"Beautiful birds," he repeated,"I like birds."  With a shock he realized he had walked several hundred feet to the south while he had been thinking all this, and his voice was beginning to express it. The picture was strong, it was inviting, it was dangerous.\par
"Get away from me, in the name of the Christ," he said aloud, and the thoughts stopped. He backed up for several feet and then turned and ran back to his truck. There were no horses here. There was no creek. There was no music, and no naiads.  There was a perilous wood, but something else, perhaps even more dangerous.\par
========\par
One August morning Jake finally allowed a tour of the old camp by more church members. The sun was barely up - he had hoped that would discourage people from coming, but it didn't - and twenty or so trucks were parked on the hard rock when he arrived. It was already hot, a sort of humid hot that foretold rain later that day, and the gray southwestern sky was slowly eating up the early morning blue. It was practically a parking lot already.   Instead of spending the morning sketching out his third book, which he was tentatively calling 'Entering the Presence,' he was out here, making sure people stayed out of the buildings. There were about forty people, some new to the church who had read his first book and were reading the second. Prayer meetings were going on, which he did not object to, but he agreed that today would be a day when everyone could see the property.  He explained that it really wasn't much of anything.  In some strange way he felt his privacy was being invaded.  He was curiously attached to these unusable buildings, as if, somehow, there was great value here.  He came out here for peace and quiet, yet there was something disquieting about it.  He really didn't want anyone out here until he understood what that disquieting thing was.  Was it the POW camp? Something to do with the pentgram, now removed? The monks? Or something else?\par
There was a large circle of people - they had joined hands and were obviously praying when he walked up.  Other people were walking around the buildings, some alone, others in groups of two or three. Everyone living in Nicholls was now attending the church.  This required more services and made the town more of a settlement than a town, as if it was reverting. Reverting?  It had never been a settlement. Changing. \par
Not everyone in town was an Epper , but when he arrived, he was the only adult male who had never served in the United States Marine Corps.  It seemed when you graduated from high school here you joined the Marines unless you were a pregnant young lady.  The graduating high school girls seemed to marry the men returning from a tour, or join the Marines themselves.  Or move out of town, whether to attend college or simply to get out of Nicholls. The young people generally grew up and left, but there always seemed to be more of them.\par
You could tell the people living with Epper families from those who were not.  The men closely cropped their hair and had no beards, which was the sign of a single male. The women pulled their hair back over their shoulders, either in a braid, or wore it in a simple scarf.  There was a complex system of what the scarfs meant in how they were folded, and it varied from country to county, but a simple kerchief formerly meant the woman was a half-wit, or a \i jongedamme\i0 , seeking engagement. Some of the girls were learning, though, and a few had that wrapped-bun look that said in the US that they were single but not looking.  They were also moving out of the jeans and t-shirt look into the more rugged and lasting Epper look. Epper clothes lasted for generations. Jake didn't know how they did it. \par
Being an Epper was more a state of mind than a religion: faith, thrift, industry, hospitality. Eppers typically lived apart.  He puzzled sometimes over these non-Eppers now coming to his Epper church.  He was their pastor, and they were attending an Epper church.  His. How did you make someone an Epper without full absorption in Epper culture? He was not sure. People usually became Eppers, when they did, as a distinct minority.  Here there were many non-Eppers with non-Epper ideas.  And his Eppers, the people in the church who had been here before he came, in some ways were more a product of Marine ideology than Epper culture.  It was a strange situation. He'd been mistaken by thinking this was a quiet small-town church.  Things were getting complex.  He spent a lot of time in prayer about it. Many of these kids were simply being absorbed into Epper families, adopting Epper ways, becoming Eppers. \par
"Hi, Pastor!" several people said.  Their prayers seemed to be ending.  His guess was that they were praying, but it wasn't out of the Approved Prayer Book issued by the Committee for Doctrinal Purity.  He had explained that he didn't want to deal with any charismatic phenomenae.  He was not going to forbid them.  But as an Epper pastor, if he officially found out about things like that happening in his church, he was required to take action. \par
Holy, Holy, Holy! Lord God Almighty Who Was And Is and Is To Come! Let the earth and the sea and the sky bow down to You!" someone said, loudly and clearly, in Epper-Dutch. He was surprised to discover someone knew it, because none of them were Eppers. People outside the Eppers spoke it? New information. Someone else translated it into English, which Jake thought was considerate. \par
 Now the circle broke up.  He pretended like he had not seen it.  None of the elders were out here - these were all laity.  He realized they were all laity that he had tagged as 'possible charismatics'.  Some had started coming only in the last few weeks after reading his first book. \par
Three people came up to him.  He recognized one as the speaker in Epper-Dutch, another as the interpreter, both new.  The third was Noah, who was now living with an Epper family.\par
"Pastor, I hope we did not offend you with the tongue."\par
"Not at all.  I commend you on your mastery of Epper-Dutch. Where did you learn it?"\par
"Epper-Dutch?" The two newcomers looked puzzled.\par
"You spoke perfect Epper Dutch.  And then you translated it perfectly. Good job there, by the way."  They looked at each other.  There was more to this story, but he did not choose to pursue it. \par
"Thank you," they said, and Jake dismissed them. \par
People outside the official leadership structure were emerging as leaders.  He was losing control.  Was control his to lose? No.  Everything was in God's hands. And there was no evil, no deceit, nothing bad in these eager young faces.  He wondered if they were 'hippiies'.  That was the new term.  In town the former Brewster home now was filled with these young men, and the former Adams home was filled with these young women, living together.  The houses were not next to each other, anyway, and he knew of no goings-on that should not be going on.  \par
With a shock he realized none of these people were people who had been attending the Nicholls Epper Church when he had arrived.  A second thought was that there were now more of these than of the others - maybe 200 from Nicholls, Marine-Epper types, and 300 who had 'drifted in' as one of them, Victoria, had put it yesterday, Catherine in her long straight red hair, maxi dress and large cross. She was from California, had 'come to Jesus' in Haight-Asbury and was now spreading love throughout the world. God had sent her here, she had flat-out declared to Jake in a most un-Epperish way. She lived in town, in the Adams house, with her friends Debbie and Susan and Nancy and another Kathy, and Beth, and a new arrival, another Susan, whom they had introduced to Jake Sunday. \par
"What do you think you are going to do with this land?"\par
Susan, the new one, burst into a strangely melodic song,"Sanctify this Land, O Lord, Glorify Your Name, Holy are You, Holy, Holy, Holy," that did not seem to be anything but spontaneous.  She carried it forward for several verses, and some of the others joned in on the the "Holy are You, Holy, Holy, Holy" part.  Jake thought it was not bad, and he hoped it was not charismatic. There was nothing wrong with it, either.\par
"You have room for an airport!"  Someone pointed out the nice flat ground stretching to the west.  \par
"Nicholls does not need an airport."\par
"You could train missionary pilots."\par
"Is there a need?"\par
Shoulders were shrugged. \par
"How about a retreat center?"\par
"That is what the Benedictines did.  It didn't go so well for them."\par
"Eppers are different."\par
"Yeah. We don't go on retreats."  There were murmurs of agreement.\par
"Why not?"\par
"They are always working." This brought laughter.\par
"How about a publishing house for Pastor Profim's books?"\par
Jake laughed. "You flatter me."\par
"What do you want to do with it?"\par
Jake shrugged.  "What the Lord wants to do with it, now that is the question.  I don't think there is enough grass and soil to run horses out here.  The only idea I have thought about at all is running horses.  As a boy I read \i the Black Stallion \i0  and I sometimes entertain the idea of owning horses. It's only an idle dream, not even one I want to pursue much."  He said nothing about wondering who had painted the pentagram, and whether they would return. At least it was gone now. \par
Was it because other people were here that the sensation of being watched was gone?  But it was, and it never returned, even when he was out there alone after that meeting.\par
Jake admonished them against 'Christian magic' - special prayers, holy water, crucifixes, whatnot, if they were conducting spiritual warfare.  Faith was the vehicle for the Christian to ask the Father, and to ask the Son and the Holy Spirit to act.  None of these are our own.  Some things only come out by prayer and fasting.  Likewise guidance. It's primarily between you and God, not between you and anything else.  Be crucified to the world and the world crucified to you - see it through the Cross, not with the eyes of man.  "Good word," someone said.  \par
"What were you praying for?"  Jake wanted to know.\par
"What God wants," someone said,"That this land be used His way, for His purposes.  That he re-consecrate these buildings."\par
"I'm sure the Benedictines de-consecrated them when they left," someone said.\par
"Why are you sure of that?"\par
"I don't know. I thought that is what they do."\par
"They return churches to common use when they abandon them."\par
"Do they?"  No one was sure.\par
"We want these buildings used for God's purposes."\par
"Great things could be done with them."\par
"The seminary could move out here.  Look at all the room."\par
The seminary had plenty of room - too much, as enrollment was down.  And moving out here would be expensive. New buildings.  New houses.  Several whole settlements supported the settlement.  They would have to move, or the whole thing would have to be rebuilt from scratch.\par
"The buildings will take a lot of work. And I don't have time myself, for that."   There was a puff of cold wind. Startled, people looked up.  The sky had turned black overhead as the clouds had moved in.\par
"Anyone with their windows down better shut them." Some people moved off.\par
"I think we are done here, Pastor."\par
"Before we do that - I mean, fix the buildings, we need to decide -" the wind had suddenly picked up.  There were only five or so people left that Jake was talking to,"decide - what - we - want - to -do."\par
He could not hear the reply from anyone.  It was a loud rumbling behind him, and he turned with the others, otherwise frozen in place.  A tornado dropped from the sky not a quarter mile away, the thick, wide kind, not the twisty thin kind.  It went directly through the camp buildings with a shattering roar, spared the people watching, spared the cars, spared the old Mueller farm buildings, and sputtered out not a half mile ahead, on its way dropping debris from the ruined buildings, blocks from the chapel, deadly shards of broken window glass and roof wood from a great height. Jake watched the chapel blocks fall all at once, in a heap,like sugar cubes from a turned human hand full of them, the later ones smashing the earlier ones, shattering each other, leaving a pile of jagged rock. Pieces of tar paper fluttered down and landed like snow. The rain began as they started their engines and got out of there.\cf1\f0  \cf0\b\par
 One Shteim Afternoon\par
\b0\f1 "It happens sometimes," Jake said, pouring coffee for his friend. Although Jake was some twenty years younger, Jake and Paul de LaGrande had gone through seminary together and had become good friends. "As you know, Eppers are far from perfect. Christians are not perfect, just forgiven, as they say. You recall that I served as amanuensis for a pastor who went through this.  You are not the first. You won't be the last." \par
"Yes," said Paul.  He looked out the window at the fall day, which was blowing leaves down the quiet street in the town of Nicholls, Missouri. It was Shteim*, November 7, 1966.  Jake looked quickly at Paul. Despite everything, he was at peace.  Paul had spent twenty five years as a carpenter, had heard the call to pastor, had struggled through college and then seminary, waited patiently six months for a call, gotten called, arrived, settled in, and then the settlement blew up. It disbanded. It was no more: some former members had joined another new settlement, others an existing one, and the remainder of what was to be his flock, for whom he has already developed a strong affection, had scattered to the wind. Settlements seldom failed, one failing so spectacularly was not something Jake had ever heard of. Until now. \par
\f0\fs18 * Eppers did not use the pagan-derived names of days of the week, but used the more sensible Hebrew names, like the Jews. So what was called Monday in the world at large was called Shteim among Eppers.  Not Sheni, but Shteim, in the Hebrew that Eppers knew, that is, those who knew any, which a Jewish friend of the Eppers once described as "very creative, that Epper-Hebrew."  Eppers preferred New Testament Greek for most things, which was to their credit.  A few Hebraisms and even fewer Aramaic expressions made them feel closer to the Lord, somehow, although how, no one really knew.  But there it was, and Monday was Shteim, the second day.  Sunday was Rishon, a term approved by their Jewish friends.  But among all the tribes of Eppers the last day of the week was never Shabbat but always the German Samstag, as Rishon was now the Sabbath, and Rishon was also called Shabbat, or the Lord's Day, whether in English, Russian, Dutch, German, or whatever language they were scattered into, but never Sunday. But in the US the younger generation often called the day Monday, a sign of spiritual degeneration, the end of the world and the soon coming of the Lord. \fs22\par
\par
\par
\f1 "I must take it personally," Paul said slowly,"I suppose I must. I must accept personal responsibility for what happened."  He was not at all perturbed; he said it in the same tone he would if he told you his wife wanted him to pick up a loaf of bread on the way home.  He slowly stroked his new, full beard, the sign of an Epper pastor. He was still not used to it.  He wondered why Jake kept his beard very short.  It would be intrusive to ask. At the seminary the professors never even trimmed their beards, but then they also did not cut their hair, either, in a rejection of a focus on bodily comfort.  Paul had been of the opinion that they often spent more time on their hair and beard than if they had shaved their heads and beards completely, but that observation would not have been well received. \par
"It's best to get that out of the way as soon as possible, and then move on. That salves the pain, staunches the wound, promotes healing."\par
Paul cocked an eyebrow at him,"I am not sure you got the order right."\par
Jake looked him in the eye.  "Neither am I.  Now, why must you take it personally?" Jake looked around for his amanuensis, the personal assistant of a pastor, who took notes on everything.  Nicholls was too small to support one.  Jake had to go it alone, and was still not used to not having one.  He had only been there five months, and had not yet really settled in, or gotten used to some of the peculiarities of the town, either.  In seminary they always assumed one would be there to record everything, to remind the pastor of meetings, to make telephone calls and run errands, but Jake had discovered his year as an amuensis had been very good training for this call. \par
"Well, I didn't look deep enough at them. I didn't see the cracks already forming. I had no idea." There was helplessness, astonishment, but no anger, no bitterness, no sense of abandonment by God. This was an impersonal, unbiased, factual, careful and unemotional assessment.  \par
"I don't think anyone else did, either.  Not even those who were there and should have seen it coming, and headed it off.  This came on them unawares, it seems.  On behalf of the bishop I talked to a number of people involved: he had asked me to investigate exactly what had happened.  The really ugly part had had nothing to do with you.  You don't need to ever know about that, and there is no need to discuss it.  It involves people and a situation that you do not need to deal with, and in all likelihood you never will."\par
"I didn't preach well enough? That wouldn't have solved the issue?"\par
"It wouldn't matter.  Between the time you accepted the call and arrived, they had decided to break up. Is it your fault they didn't tell you what they didn't know yet? That they hadn't really fully decided, until they saw a new pastor in place, and they said, no more of this?"\par
"No."\par
"Let's try this," Paul said. He spoke in a slow deliberate way, his normal pace. "I didn't hear God."\par
"You thought you did."\par
"I know I did. Others confirmed that."   Jake nodded and said,"I had been one who had confirmed it.  That settlement had kept its secret well, and now there was no going back, no healing that particular action, and forgiveness necessarily required the separation of some people. But it had looked fine.  God had allowed you,  an innocent man to walk into that. It was like you had bitten into what he had thought was a roast beef sandwich, only to discover it was full of broken glass."\par
Paul nodded. "But I know there are others in worse situations. I am not personally hurt, it is just I don't know what to do with my life, or what God wants.  That door is shut." \par
"I've been looking into these Dead Sea Scrolls.  Quite exciting.  But allow me a little history and paint a little picture:  in 68 AD the Roman Tenth Legion, which had been founded by a young Roman named Gaius Octavius - we know him better as Augustus Caesar - showed up to quash the Jewish rebellion.  The people at Qumran got wind of it, put their library in the caves in those clay jars, and fled, never to come back.  We think they were Essenes, but never mind.  They were a lot like Epper separatists in a community.  There has been a lot of interest in them as our forbearers - them and the schools of the prophets in the Old Testament.  But the settlement was abandoned.  Why?  Was it because of the Romans? Probably.  They put a garrison there for decades. Bad leadership? Internal divisions?  Did they relocate or scatter? Did they go to Jerusalem and perish in the siege? We simply do not know.  We can speculate, but that is it.  We may never have the full answer to that on earth. And you know that often we never know the full answer - sometimes not even a partial answer.  We do not know the Why but the Who. You cannot blame yourself for this one.  You can only trust the one who knows all, provides all, who is good and all wise.  Is it possble you were called to this settlement for that week and a half, and those two Sundays?"\par
"I am always amazed at your grasp of history.  I thought it was Vespasian and his son Titus, who later became emperors themselves, but never mind.  It is possible.  You remember Karl Pol?"\par
"They were involved in what Josephus called the Jewish Wars, but, yes, I remember Karl." Immediately after ordination he had suffered a heart attack and died, right there in the pulpit, five minutes into his first sermon as a real pastor.\par
"I don't think you can blame yourself.  I am pretty sure that is what the bishop will say. In fact, I am certain."\par
"You are? How?"\par
"Because, as I said, he asked me to look into this, and I have, and I agree with you.  They did you dirty. Not willingly, but still. But someone had to be there.  Somehow had to supply their pulpit and -  Can you forgive them and move on?"\par
Paul sat for a minute.  Jake knew him well, he was thinking.  Paul took his time, was very careful, thought things through.  Good wheels, only somewhat slow. In all likelihood if he put his mind to it he would figure it out exactly what had happened. Only he never would. There was no need.  That was the past, to be forgotten, and there was a future to be pressed into. Paul was also pragmatic to the point of having no curiosity beyond what was needed for the task at hand.  Resilient, too: something the seminary drew its students into. Paul would pick himself up, dust himself off and do what God called.  Beyond the Greek and Hebrew, that is what he had been trained to do: set  the example for a flock and understand what life was like for laity.\par
"I know God sometimes destroys things we hold as more valuable that we consider more valuable than He is, or removes them.  Or lets us see their true value.  But I have never really done that.  I have searched myself."\par
"Do you have doubts about God?"\par
"No."\par
"Can you move on?"\par
"I think I can press on rather than dwell on, yes. Concerning the settlement,  I don't know that someone had to be there. I will pass on that, if you don't mind. But I am not sure what my next steps are.  I am not sure where to go, what to do. That's the press on part.  What's done is done, the past is past, goodbye yesterday, hello tomorrow."\par
"Forgive me for stating the blatantly obvious: you need to hear God.  "\par
"Yes, yes I do.  Some time alone, some long silences, some long quiet. I will have to candidate again, but that will be next year, barring a sudden opening.  I believe all the open pulpits are filled.  What I would like to do is find somewhere I can reflect on this, restrengthen myself for another go. And not so much reflect on it as figure out what do now.  I haven't worked as a carpenter in years, for example, and I haven't gotten any younger." He looked at Jake, who seemingly had never known defeat.  He recalled that Jake had brilliantly graduated from Stanford, summa cum laude in two different majors at age twenty and at the top of his class in seminary at age 23, completing the seminary's toughest five year program in three years, again \i summa cum laude\i0 . An impossible achievement.  He had been courted by churches and post-doctoral programs, wanted in a dozen places. Now he was a successful author - it seemed there was no limit to his successes. And he was humble although well aware of all this. Paul wondered if Jake had he ever known failure, defeat, even discouragement.  Without envy Paul wondered how he could understand someone that it seemed no one wanted for a position anywhere. Paul knew God would provide, but he felt as bleak as the weather. Now was a light wind, but there were winter storms ahead.  Paul feared a hard winter was coming, in more than one way, but storms were part of life. It was better if you let them pass. Patiently endure them, and then they would be gone and you would remain.\par
"I have just the place.  You know my little retreat land outside of Nicholls?"\par
"You have mentioned it is there, but never told anyone exactly where it is."\par
"I don't want uninvited guests.  It is deserted now. There is just the old farmhouse and the old barn, neither usable, and some really dilapildated out buildings, but you can take a camper out there. Stay as long as you like. Really. I mean it. I'd like someone out there to watch it. I have some acreage, forty acres, on the old Mueller farm and I have no idea what to do with the land.  Maybe hunting.  Maybe I will raise horses someday. I used to read all those books about raising horses when I was a boy.  There is plenty of land for that.  It's the area that used to be the POW camp.  Then the Benedictines had it.  There were some buildings."\par
"The Second World War, I presume?"\par
"Why, yes. I have heard that the prisoners were hard-core Nazis and fascists at the end. Some camps allowed prisoners to work farms, but not here.  Not that there is any productive land to farm.  It's odd - land in all directions is productive, but not here."\par
"How did you manage to get such a piece of property?"\par

\pard Jake laughed. "The Mueller family.  They read my book, took me for a sucker, and gave me the land.  It's worthless, and a liability, but then I live right here. So I accepted the gift, and am the proud owner of an abandoned POW camp."   \par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 "Western Nicholls County - isn't that where there is supposed to be treasure buried?"\par
"That's an old story. There are different versions, from the Spanish hiding Inca treasure, even the famous golden chain of Huayna Capac,  to the Italian POWs who were out there hiding gold, to the Blythewood gang in the Civil War.  Even a Pawnee raid on a wagon train. And El Dorado, the city of gold the Spanish were always searching for."\par
"Strange that there are so many stories about it, and they all center around hiding gold out there. Huayna Capac - that gold chain was down in South America. It is downright bizarre that anyone would think it was here."\par
"Yes. It is very strange.  I don't know how, or why, the rumors started.  Perhaps it is just because it is unknown land.  It is odd, probably the largest uninhabited area in Missouri: half the county, and Nicholls County is not a small county.    Let me tell you the most plausible story, from what I have heard, anyway, which may or may not be correct, and there is probably more to it. At least that pesky Johnson family believes the story, and that someone named Johnson had it, and they are his descendents.   Let's see....During the civil war a bank-robbing gang operated from this area headed by Zeke Blythewood.   They robbed banks, stole cattle, pillaged crops and raided general stores. This area was the depopulated area between Cass and Bates County, whose population had been ordered removed by Federal Order General 11 in 1863. Under the pretext of being guerillas they robbed every bank in estern Kansas and likely every bank in western Missouri, as well as committing robberies in Iowa, Nebraska and Arkansas. \par
\par
"Zeke Blythewood's signature line, on leaving a town, was to loudly boast that he was Colonel Zeke Blythewood (he thought "General" to be pompous) , and he was fighting for the Union (in Confederate territory) and for the Confederacy (in Union Territory).  Then he would fire his revolver, his horse would rear and he and his would gallop out of town, scattering a few  coins to people as he went. This allowed a quick giveaway until people realized he had taken all the rest of their money, jewels and gold and silver. It is remarkable that he never killed anyone and never lost a man. \par
"I see I am forgetting the Phelps Diamond.  Well, this is the legend as I head it.  It was found som\lang1033 ewhere in Arkansas -"\par
"Arkansas.  Diamonds in Arkansas?"\par
"Stranger things have happened.  This is a strange world.  Anyway it was found by the farmhand Phelps during the Civil War one hundred years ago. He gave it, or sold it, to the local banker, named Johnson, who asked his brother the jeweler to look at it.  The jeweler said it looked like a diamond.  But before he could really look at it, it was stolen by the Blythewood Gang.  Phelps never told anyone where he found it; he marched off to fight for the Confederacy and never returned.  We know of it only from the banker's letter to his brother, the jeweler in Little Rock who traveled to Murfreesboro to examine it but never got a good look at it, having arrived after dark, and a brief newspaper article in the Gazette that appears to have been based on information from the jeweler, who also witnessed the robbery.  According to one story, it was probably in the wagons of treasure that were recovered from the Blythewood gang when they were caught - their first hideout had been found and they were moving their treasure to a new one in Nicholls County when they were caught with their wagons, but the diamond was never found, as the wagons were not searched, only brought to the courthouse. \par

\pard "Quite a story."\cf2\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\par
"I don't know that I believe it - it is mostly hearsay. Rumor. Not documented.  But \lang9 In late 1865, after the end of the war, Zeke and his gang were tracked down and caught with over three million dollars in cash, plus silver, gold and jewelry.  While in the Cass County jail in Harrisonville they were being guarded by the Muellers, who  homesteaded land west of where Nicholls is now.  News spread far and wide that the Blythewood Gang had been captured.  A large mob gathered and demanded Zeke and his gang be hanged.  There was a riot, the mob broke into the jail, Blythewood and his gang were lynched, but in the uproar Hans - who also went by Augustus, it seems, depending on who is telling the story -  Mueller and his sons disappeared, along with a number of wagons full of gold and silver.  They had been entrusted to guard said wagons. They said they were taking them to safety on account of the riot.  Why no one was watching them is a good question. Maybe the riot, maybe it is hearsay.\par
"I heard something about the Muellers a long time ago."\par
"Lies and rumors fly but truth walks, as they say.  To save his own life, the federal marshall swore the entire mob into a posse,  and hundreds if not thousands of men who wanted their money back found only Mrs. Mueller and her small  children on the Mueller ranch, the older boys being with the men. She said the men had indeed come by, but in two empty wagons.  They said they were going somewhere but would be back and loaded up their wagons with provisions for a journey.  Hans kissed his wife and headed off westward with his sons.  They never returned.  The rest of the wagons and horses that had been in Harrisonville were found on the Mueller property, but not any of the gold or silver or jewelry. The Muellers' trail was lost on the plains by those pursuing, and there were hostile tribes in the area at the time, so they were not pursued far. Many have searched for the gold and silver, but  it has never been found.  It is believed to be buried somewhere on the old Mueller Ranch.   People think Zeke Blythewood told Hans Mueller where he had buried the treasure, or somehow the Muellers were in on it, and Hans hid this treasure with the rest of it, wherever it went.  The wagons in Harrisonville by no means held everything Zeke stole."\par

\pard\lang1033\par
"Search parties found no one who had seen Pa Mueller or any of his sons again, nor any of the treasure.  The brothers Johnson had been on their way up from Arkansas on the news of the capture, but arrived after the lynching.  The County Courthouse in Harrisonville holds a copy of their letter to the County, detailing their legal claim to the diamond, if ever found, and a list of all the hundreds of people they had asked who claimed to have never seen it.  It is a remarkable letter and almost suggests the county sherriff had himself taken the diamond, but they wanted it back if found. They returned empty handed to Arkansas after several months of searching the Mueller property for the diamond and hiring men to watch for the return of the Muellers. \par
\par
"Ma Mueller, her daughters and younger children soon moved to Kansas City and then to Minnesota, where they had family.  They never sold the land, which caused some speculation. Neither did they ever appear to be wealthy, nor did the men ever return. \par
\cf2\par
\cf0 "What every story I have heard has had, and there are plenty of people around here to love to tell their favorite verson,  no matter how far astray it went from the basic outline, every story has the element that there was treasure hidden on the property, whether from a wagon train traveling from New Mexico to Independence that was ambushed and burned by the Pawnee,or  treasure somehow smuggled onto the property during World War 2 by Nazis when there was a Prisoner of War camp there.  Even wilder rumors were that the Inca had hidden their treasure here from the Spanish, and that the Vikings had buried a chieftain here with a sizeable amount of gold, jewels and expensive artifacts.  There was, however, no evidence of any of this. Despite years of determined searching and digging, no treasure had ever been found. Not one piece of gold, not one jewel, not one piece of leather or box that would suggest there might be treasure.  In places, particularly just south of the old farmstead, during the 1920s and 1930s, bulldozers had taken the soil away down to bedrock and left massive piles of dirt.  There is only the one farmhouse and a few farm buildings, in very bad shape.  I'll tell you about the other buildings some time. That is a story that I know, because I was involved."\cf2\par
\par
\cf0 "Could the treasure still be out there?"\cf2\par
\par
\cf0 "The property was thoroughly searched repeatedly, particularly by members of the Johnson family - illegally, but openly.  The only area not searched was Snake Woods, the habitat of a particularly venomous snake that feasted on the birds that would take refuge in the trees there. Snake Woods has an evil reputation for killing many people and had never been entered. Teenagers from Nicholls were particularly fond of daring each other to get close to the Woods.  Every few years there would be a fatality.  No one could possibly have gone in there to hide any treasure, so even the treasure seekers left it alone.  The same would have happened to whoever hid the treasure there, which I doubt.  I don't know that there ever was any treasure out there. \par
\par
"But you cannot prove a negative.  You could only prove it if the treasure was every found."\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 "I suppose every square inch could be examined, if it has not, and still the best you could ever get would be a "to my knowledge, I have examined this land and not found..."  But it is large, half the county after all, and mostly bare rock, especially around the farmhouse and old POW camp.  Many have searched.  It's a funny thing, though, that there are so many different stories about treasure supposedly hidden out west of Nicholls, in the uninhabited area - the soil is just too poor to do anything with, even ranch.  i guess people fill empty land with crazy ideas.  Like if you empty your mind you may fill it with trash, instead of filling it with the Word of God, I guess." \f0\lang9\par
\f1\par
"So people think the Muellers were in on it?"\par
"Who knows? Was there anything to it at all?  But Mrs. Mueller and her children were never wealthy. Perhaps the Mueller men were in on it.  Perhaps they even came back and got the treasure later and no one knew about it.  But not a word or a penny did Mrs. Mueller ever get from them again. Some people think they went into Oklahoma, then a territory, and were massacred by the Indians."\par
"An article on it that was published just last year in a KC paper states that today the missing money would be worth around 42 million dollars. There is still a lot of interest in it, you see.   Based on an inventory of the jewels and gold completed before the Muellers vanished, the total value of the missing silver, gold and jewelry today would be upwards of 25 billion dollars. It is possible the value today might exceed one trillion dollars.  All that has to be somewhere.  It has never been found, and the best evidence is it is somewhere on the Mueller property. If it is, it is very well hidden."\par
"The  Phelps Diamond alone, reputably the largest diamond ever found in the United States, was taken in a raid on Murfreesboro, Arkansas.  Phelps had never revealed where or how he found the diamond, according to the county judge, who had some familiarity with diamonds, internally flawless and colorless and "bigger than my fist".  A jeweller from Little Rock had come out to examine it, and had seen it and verified it was a diamond, both colorless and flawless on initial examination, as well as large, but that night was the night of the raid.  Its worth alone would be in the hundreds of millions of dollars.  And it was not the only gem taken.  But the wagons were searched and it was not there.  Obviously Zeke must have hidden it."\par
"Fancy that, Jake.  You may have been given a fortune."\par
 Jake shrugged.  Treasure appealed to neither of them, at least not earthly treasure. "All that area has been extensively dug up by treasure-hunters, whose activities peaked in the 1930s. Probably the Italian POWs were used to search for it as well. During the late 1960s someone brought in excavators and bulldozers. They tore up hundreds of acres but found nothing. They ruined most of the land around the old farm buildings.  As the Muellers had abandoned the property, out of state relatives that were legally found to have the right to the land gave  them permission to dig, but the land appeared totally useless for any commercial purpose.  I think it was donated to  me maybe out of some overly developed sense of gratitude or a tax writeoff.   A little known fact is that the Muellers reserved mineral rights.  This has mostly been forgotten as there are none on my  property, which is mostly limestone stripped of topsoil, with just enough soil to feed a few head of cattle. The family abandoned the Ranch in the late 1860s and that entire half of the county has pretty much been left alone ever since."\par
"Does anyone know if this Phelps Diamond actually exists? Could it be a hoax, perhaps foisted by people wanting to increase property values where it was found?"\par
"There is no reason to assume it is a hoax.  There is evidence both in Arkansas and Missouri that it is real.  Blythewood called out before he was killed that if they spared his life he would tell them where the Phelps Diamond was.  They lynched him anyway, figuring him for a liar."\par
"Well, I'm not at all interested in it. If it is there, leave it lay, until the Good Lord reveals it. Fools run after such things.  'For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs.'   Beware of the fate of Achan.  And 'And do not vainly hope in robbery; If riches increase, do not set your heart upon them.'. And 'Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal.'   Give me neither poverty nor riches, Lord.  Are people still interested in it?"\par
"Most folk in the Nicholls area look on it as local legend, mostly forgotten, maybe a just a story that makes the lynching of some small-time bank robbers in the late 1860s more interesting, maybe spread by Rufus Mueller, the youngest of the Mueller boys who was left behind when his father and brothers took off west and later came back here.  But he died long ago, and maybe the truth with him.  I know he came back, or people say he did, but I don't know what he is supposed to have done or how long he stayed. And then there is the Johnson family.  They claim to be the real, true owners of the Phelps Diamond.  The Muellers told me they were annoyed at all the letters sent to them, begging them to give them the land, or offering to buy it at bad terms.  Now I am getting those letters.  But as a pastor it is my job, I suppose, to read annoying letters, among other things."\par
"Yes," said Paul slowly, with a slight smile. It was good to see him smile. \par
"The one noteworthy feature of that expanse of land is Snake Woods, a thin strand of thick trees and boulders that has never been fully explored.  It is the home of the endangered Golden Headed rattlesnake that lives here and nowhere else.  Heh.  Some say it's the tail. They say if you see one it's too late anyway.  These snakes are aggressive and their venom is quick-acting and always lethal.  Anyone in the vicinity of Snake Woods can hear the rattle of the snakes, which will go into the tall grass around the wood to hunt mice, although mainly they prey on birds that roost in one of the few wooded areas for miles.  People have always given Snake Woods a wide berth.  The last death from snakebite was last year - teenagers like to sneak onto the property and see how close to Snake Woods they go.  The victim died in less than five minutes. Someone being out there - you - would help discourage that sort of thing.  No one knows how much is myth and legend, and how much is fact. That is one story.  Another is that the Pawnee ambushed a wagon train full of gold and hid the gold on the property.  The wagon train was supposed to be going from New Mexico to Independence, Missouri.  Why a wagon train full of gold would be doing that, I have no idea. Or why Italian POWs would have gold in the first place, being prisoners, and bury it here and leave it when they went back to Italy, never to return."\par
"Well, that's interesting....I don't have a camper."\par
"I can get you one. Really. Don't look like that - the Lord has been blessing me financially and I would like to bless others. In this case, you. Tell you what - I will pay your expenses for a week while you sort things out.  Then the payoff from your colony should support you for a year."\par
"Well, thank you. And I am grateful for their generosity."\par
"My pleasure.  It's really nothing.  Maybe God will tell you what He wants done with the land."\par
"I don't have anti-venin, either."\par
"It will be no comfort to you, but there is none.  It acts too quickly. Well, stay out of high weeds and out of Snake Woods, and you'll be fine.  But there are no high weeds.  There are some very scattered, very determined trees and weeds that have managed to find a crack or dirt or something and have survived.  There is a lessson in that for all of us.  You'll see.  It's mostly exposed limestone.  There is the huge flat area where the POW camp used to be, and the piles of debris from when they demolished the camp. Most of it they shoved into their quarry at the end of the war  In the area south of the farmhouse there are earth mounds that I figure were piled that way when people were hunting for treasure.  I think they used bulldozers.  Most of the dirt has blown away otherwise."\par

\pard\lang1033\par
Jake held up a letter. "By the way, I received this at church Sunday. It's from a Mabel - no last name. I think I know who it is, as I am also new, and as with a new pastor, sometimes congregations fluctuate in the first four months. A young woman came up to me and told me she 'felt called to pray' for me.  Her name, anyway, is Mabel.  So if you have any prayer requests, I guess you can ask Mabel."\par
\par
"Is she one of those people who maintain she is called to prayer ministry?"\par
\par
"I think she is, and does.  A little prayer won't hurt, now will it? If God calls someone to pray, are you going to object?"\par
\par
"Well, no, it just sounds a little weird or something.  We are all called to pray. Not just a few."\par
\par
"True, but some pray more than others."\par
\par
"God is no respecter of persons. Why should He answer one person's prayer more than another's?"\par
\par
"Well, I guess if the other person didn't pray, there would be nothing to answer."\par
\par
"Right. Okay...Let me talk to Jeannie and see if we can come up with some prayer \par
requests for this Mabel person."  \par
\par
"One more thing.  It has occurred to me once or twice that I should ask you a very personal question. May I?"\par
\par
"Certainly."\par
\par
"Do you feel that God has forgotten or abandoned you?"\par
\par
From the sudden look on his face it was clear Paul had never had a thought about it. He even laughed at the absurdity of it, as if it was a joke. "No, not at all. It hadn't even crossed my mind.  I look at everything as coming from the good hand of my good Father in heaven.  All things work together for good for those who love the Lord, who are called according to His purposes. Let me turn the tables with another question. Do you think God has abandoned me?"\par
\par
"Why, no."\par
\par
Paul shrugged. "Then why even bring it up?"  And they never did again. \par
\par
"Let me tell you about the tornado."  And he did. "Sometimes God's plans are different from ours.  I learned, anyway, in a new way that we can trust God no matter what."\par
\par
They talked for a while.  That Sunday Jake preached three times to a packed church on The Hidden God, which sermon Paul deeply inspired and appreciated. Paul told him about the dream and the lock. It sounded to Jake like Paul was trusting God - and going overboard, if he was, was better than doubt.  It was not presumption but rather an old Epper custom to not lock things. \cf3\highlight4\par
\cf0\highlight0\par
\par
\ul Paul and Jeannie Move onto the Land\par
\par
\cf2\ulnone\par
 Paul  built two cabins, a stable and barn (towards Jake's dream to raise horses on the land). Paul enjoyed the peace; Jeannie, his wife, got him involved in the Nicholls Epper church and took on the role of the 'pastor's wife, as Jake's wife was both consumed with children and not very healthy.  Jake gave him the men's Bible study to lead, which quickly dwindled and ended. He preached once as well, being a pastor, and he led the service once, but in both situations he was not asked again, as the decision of the elders. \par
\par
\cf3 Jeannie didn't want to just hang around the property; she wanted people contact.  She got involved in a prayer group at the Epper church that was, using the then-current Epper term, spongy charismatic (using charismatic lingo, open to the gifts, the sort of thing that the Eppers soon shut down.   \par
\cf0\b\par
\b0\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f1 It was quiet out there, with prairie wind the only noise.  Paul and Jeannie parked the camper not too far from the farmhouse and the barn - it was like a huge parking lot; he could have parked anywhere.  He startled a deer standing in front of the farmhouse. It disappeared behind the barn before he could get out of the truck. He did not know that would be the only time he would ever see a deer anywhere near the old farmhouse. He looked around, not for the last time, for unwanted visitors.  Jake had said that was one reason for someone to be out here.  \par
 Jeannie wanted the trailer moved five times, which Paul did without complaining, until it was just in the right place.  She would get out of the truck and look around, and the camper needed to be a few feet this way, or face that way, but maybe better over here, facing another way, but then it was better over there, where they had had it.  Finally she was happy with the location.  Paul did not point out that it was exactly where he had parked at first, give or take a foot or two.\par
Paul looked around.  To the east you could see the tops of some of the buildings in Nicholls above the horizon.  The flat area extended west from where the road ended, with a large pile of debris in the middle and another down at the west end.  To the north, south and west, past the flat area, grassy prairie hills rolled out of sight, long and low and flat.  There were few trees and there was more rock than dirt, in places all grey bedrock with the lone tree or weed here and there, just as Jake had said.  The only interruption was the huddled cluster of farm buildings.  They were grey and tiny under the huge sky.  Paul did not remember the sky being so big, but there it was, as if he had noticed it for the first time.  He felt very small. There were small clouds high in the huge sky.  They were tiny as they slowly moved to the northeast.  For a second it seemed as if the sky in the south was dark, but he looked again, and it was normal blue.  His eyes seemed to be playing tricks on him. Maybe there was a flock of birds down there? No.  He had been to Oklahoma and had seen very flat lant.  This rivalled it. It was oddly, weirdly, depressingly flat, flatter than any land had a right to be.  There was something oppressive about it.  Hadn't he seen long low prairie hills? Now it was all flat, dreary, dismal.  There was something unhealthy about that dreariness.\f0\par
\f1 Jeannie unpacked things from the trip and began to set up the trailer from the trip. Their own little nest: she hummed for a minute and stopped.\par
She emerged from the trailer.  "I was humming, but this place got to me somehow. I was afraid you had wandered off. The sky is clear but it feels tense, like right before a thunderstorm.  I don't like that.  Please stay close."\par
He agreed to.  She went back in but did not hum again. She was mainly concerned with the inside of the trailer, with dinner, with getting things just the way she wanted. She would have to go to the store in the morning for things forgotten.  She knew where Nicholls Grocery was, the only one in town.  And the clothing stores along Main, but she had not really been shopping. Yet. She made a mental note to find a shopping buddy.  She made lists like that in her mind.  Probably someone from church.  There was certainly no one out here.  Paul was not someone to go shopping with. She was alone, it hit her, almost like a physical blow. She knew no one except Paul.  If she lived or died, no one would care. Her thoughts went into dark places, but she was well trained enough to pull out and reject that whole net of gloom. God was there, Jesus was still on the throne. She told the darkness to be quiet, and a few minutes later the feeling dissolved.  \par
After unhooking the trailer from the truck, Paul moved boxes into the trailer for Jeannie. He then looked at the barn and the farmhouse. From a distance, neither was really usable, and he was not sure about stepping inside the farmhouse, which was long deserted.  Paul's eyes brightened at the idea of fixing them up.  \par
"Green Acres is the place to be..." Jeannie was singing.  Her normal cheerful mood was completely returned. \par
"What?"\par
"That new TV show.  This place reminds me of the TV show named "Green Acres."  \par
Well, Paul had never seen it and had no plans that way. He'd been in seminary.  Jeannie enjoyed some TV shows, which Paul supposed was ok if not overindulged in.  As for himself, he usually was doing other things and had never gotten involved in television shows.  Carpentry as therapy.  Paul loved using his hands, whether nailing, painting, sawing or sanding or anything else.  He had a few tools here, as he was still, at heart, a carpenter.  He had made repairs at the seminary while he had been there. There was nothing like sanding wood for thinking out theology.\par
"We're going to need a privy," she pointed out. The trailer had a tank they could use until he could do something better.  He knew Jeannie well enough to know she would have plenty to say if he suggested using an outhouse all winter.  She liked her creature comforts.  And he was then outside, looking for any place in the rock where a hole could be dug.  It was like rough concrete, mostly, right here.  He walked around looking at things.  More rock.  And then more rock.  Well, he thought, he was a carpenter, and here was rock.  God had a sense of humor.  \par
An enormous, old fallen tree, most likely an elm although in its decripitude it was hard to tell, lay in front of the farmhouse, on one side of what must have been the path up from what had been the drive to the front door.  Pieces of decaying wood suggested where, long years ago, there must have been another tree, the stump long gone along with its every other trace. The wood was rotted, decayed, turning to sawdust.  He cautiously thumped a porch post on the house.   "Structure's firm," he said to himself. "No termites."  No glass in the windows - it was on the floor, inside, it must have fallen or broken years ago.  He bent down and tried to lift a porch plank, and it came right up. He broke it in his hands.  "Not surprising." At some point someone had come along and ripped up every board - they were all helter-skelter.   He carefully stepped into where the plank had been and looked inside the doorway. Old  leaves from trees long dead and debris everywhere, a deep layer, up to the windows across from him. "Floor's gone, probably" he thought,"Not going to try. There could be snakes under there, for all I know, or a cellar, and I don't know how I'd get out."  He pulled his  foot back. There was a ladder up to the attic, but no way was he going to try it. It looked like someone had poked into all the old walls, maybe the old treasure hunters.  There was certainly no place anything could be hidden: everything was exposed. Cobwebs caught the sunlight like a 'Do Not Enter' sign.   But the  trees had somehow found soil.  The way the cabin was sitting suggested there had been soil here, long ago, when the cabin was built.   \par
He stepped back from the cabin.  At some point the roof had had a claim to the name, but there were huge holes now, and shafts of sunlight struck the old floor. All was quiet. For the moment there was not even any wind.\par
Jake had mentioned that at times he felt like he was being watched when he was out here: he sometimes got the sense he was facing ill-will. Paul looked around but saw no one, just the large level area where the POW camp had been and in the far west the old quarry.  Beyond it the prairie hills began again, but clear of more than sparse grass. Same to the north, and to the east.  He touched his holster.  Inside it was a new, newly cleaned Colt 45 with seven rounds in the clip, but the chamber was empty, and the safety was on.  \par
He stepped back again, away from the buildings to get a better view all around and  found himself looking up at the hard blue sky. He sat up and found that he had tripped on a branch from the tree.  It was so rotten that it simply detached from the trunk and more or less shattered on the rock. He unchambered the round and put the safety back on after a minute of looking around.  That feeling was stronger.   He caught his breath. Something was inside the trunk, something that that detaching that branch had revealed. It was shiny.  He easily uncovered more of it with his finger and pulled it out from the debris  : a large translucent rock, heavy, larger than his hand.\cf2\lang1033  \cf0 Someone must have hidden it long ago in a hole that had grown over before the tree died. \cf3\lang9\par
\cf0 He stared at what his hands held for a minute.  He thought of the Phelps diamond.  Perhaps this was it, and someone had hidden it in this tree, only now to be discovered after many years?  On his first visit?  No way. "The Phelps Diamond? A legend. Next you'll be thinking a dragon or giant will be coming along to fight you for it."  He looked around but still saw nothing.  His heart sank, because dealing with this stone would be a nuisance.  He wanted peace and quiet. If they let the diamond's existence be known, there would be treasure hunters galore all over the place looking for the rest of the Blythewood treasure or whatever other treasure was supposed to be out here that people had been looking for at least since the Civil War. But he would have to tell Jake. This was his land.  And, smiling to himself, this was his problem, not one Paul would have to resolve. \par
With the stone in his hands he prayed that Jesus would show him what to do.  He suddenly turned to the cabin and flung the stone through the doorway into it with both hands.  He could see where it landed, and then the leaves swallowed it up, as if it had never gone into them. \par
=========\par
"Sure it's there?"  By habit they had fallen into Epper-Dutch, which as their birth tongue came more easily than this English.  \par
"No."  Paul was hoping he had imagined it.  He began raking all the leaves out of the old cabin carefully because he was not sure there was no cellar, and there might be critters of one kind or another under the leaves, critters best left alone.  Paul had started at the door, raked some out, and had created a semicircle of exposed stone floor.  He then tested the solidity of that floor and reached further into the cabin, probing with the rake handle, into the leaves, and his rake hit something.\par
"That may be it," he said, with some sense of disappointment.  Why did it have to be there at all? Why couldn't someone have found it? This was trouble, but he accepted trouble as the gracious hand of a loving God.  So he resigned himself once again to providence that moved in such mysterious ways, and a few seconds later there it was, sitting on the stone.  Jake himself went in and picked it up and brought it out.\par
"Heavy," he said.  He also found it necessary to carry it with two hands.\par
"Well, it could be a diamond.  Look at the way it reflects the light." They played with it a minute or two.\par
"Your decision?"\par
"Well, I am very busy right now.  I don't want the hassle of the discovery of this.  It would probably involve secular court, and the Johnston family would claim it is theirs, or the Muellers, or the Phelps, even though there is no proof they are the same Johnstons as the family in Arkansas. I don't want to bother with the fight for it.  They can have it, for all I care." No Epper ever liked the idea of secular court, and they lived by 'give to him who asks of you' but then the Eppers had won all their court cases in the United States and had carved out their special legal status, where the government left them alone and the Eppers left the government alone.  It was ironic that here the main source of revenue was USMC retirement checks. \par
Jake reflected on this. "Again, to whom does it belong?  Me, since it is on my property, or the Muellers, or the storied Phelps? Or the people Phelps gave it to, or did he really give it to them to any more than look at? And do any of those people have descendents? That Johnson family sometimes is a nuisance, demanding entrance to the land in such a way that selling them the land was the last thing you wanted to do.  They had approached the Army during the war, but it was an active POW camp, and then they approached the Benedictines.  Now they approached me, but I like the idea of his quiet retreat. The Johnsons would probably sue for possession, and there would be court appearances, legal fees, time and money gone and never recovered that could be put to better use.  What if the Army decided it was theirs?  There could be a long, drawn out court fight between the Army and the Johnston family. Or the descendents of the people Blythewood robbed who have never been compensated. And can any of this really be proven? Such an absolute waste of time would be intolerable.'\par
Eppers habitually disdained material wealth, ostentation, 'soft clothes and palaces' and avoided riches whenever possible. That their prudence, thrift and hard-work produced riches time and again was something they accepted as a cross from God.  They gave away what they did not need as quickly as they could. They could also reject invitations to easy wealth, which this seemed to be. \par
"I don't know that it is anything except a big old rock."  Jake examined Paul's face.\par
"We have no proof, just wild speculation."\par
"You told me you found it in the tree, in a hole."  Paul showed Jake the hole. Jake compared the hole and the rock."\par
"I never heard of a diamond this big.  It could be some other stone. Gneiss or something else."\par
"So what do you want to do?"\par
"I'd say put it back where you found it, except I don't think you can put that branch back in.  Maybe there's somewhere here we can hide it a little better than in the leaves?"\par
"There are times when it seems there are people walking around here at night. I would not want them to find it."\par
"I can locate a jeweler or a gemologist or someone,  anyone, who knows about rocks.  And they are simply not going to believe me if I tell them you found the Phelps Diamond.  I think it is highly likely it is just a shiny rock, and I sure don't want to get someone out here, waste their time and all, on what would amount to a fool's errand. Nothing against you.  I would need some proof before I would be willing to go so far as to ask someone what it is.  But I have other concerns, such as my congregation, and these young people who keep showing up.  This is low on the list of things I need to deal with, so I think we need to just put it in a safe place and I suppose one of these things I will know what to do about your shiny rock."\par
"That's fine."\par
"Is it?  Why would anyone hide a big old shiny rock in a tree? And I don't think that rock is native to the area.  I have some reservations about just hiding it.  That pursuit of truth thing."\par
"You yourself have said that we should act on fact, not on speculation.  I found that rock here, didn't I? Couldn't there be other reasons it wound up inside a tree? I mean, maybe someone thought it was the Phelps Diamond and stuck it there until he knew what to do with it."\par
Jake smiled. "That's possible.  Maybe there are a lot of these rocks in some creekbed around here, and I would be a real fool indeed if I got some high-priced jeweler to come all the way here and he told me you can get this sort of rock by the truck load in any creek in the county.  I just need some more facts.  The problem is that I don't have time now to pursue it.  Now, where can we hide it?"\par
Paul thought a minute. "Well, there's the outhouse."\par
Jake nodded.  The door was gone, but the hole was still there. It no longer smelled, but it did have some water in it from a rain two weeks ago or so.  They dropped the stone in it and watched the ripples until they stilled.\par
"It would be funny if the real diamond was down there."\par
"Do you know how many treasure hunters would be crawling all over here if we actually found it? How much time we would have to spend in court? I tell you, my friend, finding that treasure would be a real nuisance.  A man can have any amount of money in this world, but he is much more restricted on time.  And I cannot see spending a lot of time dealing with some treasure, imaginary or real, true or false, rather than on what God has called me to do - to preach, to teach, and to pastor. Beware mammon. Beware the lure of expensive, precious, beautiful things. Money. Gems, jewelry."  \par
"You know what that reminded me of?"\par
"What?"\par
"Cast it into the fire. Mount Doom."\par
"Well, that would make me Isildur. But an Isildur who renounced the ring.  I renounce any attraction or devotion to the treasure here, whether this or any other that may be hidden. It's a nuisance. May it be hidden forever! At the least, may I never have to deal with it!"\par
For good measure they dropped pieces of that broken branch on top of it, enough that should the water dry up, the stone would still be hidden.  They found a few other rocks and dropped them in. Finally Paul found a stone of over one hundred pounds that would fit down the hole. It went in, dropping several feet, and Paul was satisfied.\par
Jake looked at Paul. "Have you mentioned this to anyone? Jeannie?"\par
Paul shook his head. Jake continued, "Let's not mention this to anyone.  I have told no one,and I am asking to never discuss it, either.  I just don't want to go down this direction with my life."\par
"Fine with me. I won't tell anyone."  I\lang1033 t was not the sort of thing either was interested in and they promptly forgot about it.\lang9  Years later something happened that brought the incident to light, but it lay there, unknown, in its hole, forgotten and abandoned.\par
 \f0 =======================================\par
\f1 The night visitor waited until Paul and Jeannie were asleep.  There was enough starlight and moonlight on this clear night to see by, so he did not bother with any additional light.  He stepped softly around and found the tree branch missing.  He saw the newly exposed wood and felt the hole - a hole large enough to have concealed something of size.  He noticed the leaves had been raked in the cabin and that some stones had been moved and were missing.  What had been taken from where? From the tree? From the cabin? Why had the stones been taken? Those to whom he reported would want answers, but he had no more, here.  He searched the ground around the old POW camp elsewhere, with special attention to the old quarry.\par
Then he found two hippies, sleeping in blankets under the stars, with a small campfire - that explained it.  They had collected rocks for their fire circle and the ash in the circle was likely that branch. He nodded to himself.  None of this was worth reporting.\par
\f0 ========================================================\par
\f1 He closed the folder on his desk.  So the subject had visited the library. Under the report was the very book he had looked at, Geological Maps of Missouri, and the page, Nicholls County, had a bookmark. It showed not much, but what was interest was that the subject had traced the line of one creek  with his finger, and had touched where the farmhouse was, approximately, before closing the book and returning it to the Reference librarian.  The geology of Nicholls County was of course a particular kind of high-grade limestone - they quarried it down there - and there was that odd intrusion from the southeast of other, poorer grade limestone.  He didn't care what the soil types were. The boundaries were uncertain because NIcholls County had never been fully explored on the west side.  He didn't care about that.  He cared about what Jake had done.  The man was untouchable, at least for now - he would have people walk that creek the very next day.  But it was definite now that Jake Profim had found the treasure.  Probably he was going to split it with the Mueller family.  They had come to such a cozy arrangement so quickly that it could mean nothing else.  \par
Profim had also looked at a book on precious stones.  Sheets of tracing paper were inserted on pages he had looked at, and there were circles showing where his fingerprints had been found.  Diamond. Quartz. Mozarkite.  None of which were found anywhere near Nicholls County, from the map showing 'Locations of Precious Stones and Semi-Precious Stones in Missouri.' But Jake Profim had specifically said 'gold mine'.  He had not looked at the pages on gold, pyrite, or anything else, just diamond, quartz and mozarkite.  That meant that he must have found the diamond itself.  He had no need to identify the gold, because it must be in the form of coin.  \par
Those watching had gotten too close.  They had been noticed, it seemed, because Jake Profim and now Paul had both suddenly looked up and around at times.  The teams were ordered to pull back further.  \par
He thought a minute.  People had been over and over that cabin, the barn, everything.  It was the creek.  It had to be there.  And he had to find it and get the treasure out before Jake Profim or his buddy were aware that it was ever there.  Jake had slipped it out that he had found a gold mine, but he had tried to keep it a secret.  Someone who makes one mistake will make another.  This pastor had led them right to it.  It was in the creek. It had to be.  All his people, every last one, were going to search that creek.\par
No one had ever, to his knowledge, searched the creek.  All efforts had been around the farm itself.  What fools they had been. \par
He looked at a county map of Nicholls County.  Wolf Creek, it was called.  Its headwaters began just inside the Kansas state line and Wolf Creek itself lay just about on a direct line between Harrisonville and the Mueller cabin.  He picked up another folder and looked at the report on where the Mueller wagons had been found.  One had been found there - near the old ford on Wolf Creek on the Harrisonville-Plutarch Road.  Half of his people would go upstream at that point, half downstream, searching for caves, recent excavations, any disturbance at all.  If Jake Profim could find it, so could they.  How could they have missed it?  This Jake Profim, reputedly some kind of genius, had walked right in and found it immediately.  But the man was distracted with his church.\par
Billions of dollars there.  Like taking candy from a baby.\par
\f0 ===========================================================\par
There was no power, no well, no running water, no nothing.  Paul rubbed his hands. He had work to do.  He began planning his work, happily thinking about getting a power line run out here, drilling a well, building a small cabin, putting in a septic field, maybe an outbuilding or two. There was the old power line from Nicholls that had been used for the POW camp - restringing wires would be easy.  Some of the poles were even still there. What would Jake like? He sighed contentedly and went to see if Jeannie was ready for him to do her bidding.  On the way he noticed the soil again, , or lack of it: they were practically on rock.  South of the trailer and the flat area were strange piles of dirt, like years before it had all been scraped up and left in large piles. Small trees had struggled to grow but had died - when he dug in one pile, it was more interwoven roots than soil.  That also stirred up the ants.  He'd had experiences with ants defending their homes before, and quickly stepped back before they found him.  The mounds It gave a weird feeling to the landscape. Jake would know what that was about.  But he might have to go with a lagoon, and if this was all this rocky, he might build elsewhere.  \par
"Peace and quiet, Jeannie," he said, entering the trailer. He would say nothing to Jeannie about the possible diamond. He would have to Jake first.\par
"Here," she said,"please put this over there."\par
"What? Over where?" He was baffled.\par
"Where it belongs. It's a comforter, and that is a bed. A woman would understand."\par
"Well, I am not a woman."\par
"No, definitely not.  I could have a conversation with a woman.  My dear,  I mean..."\par
"Ahhh. I think you are hinting."\par
"Everything is fine, sweetie."\par
"I don't think it is.  I like the peace and quiet. But I know you."\par
"And I am going to go nuts without someone to talk to.  There is a very nice church here in Nicholls that I hope has a decent women's Bible study. That Pastor Profim is the man you went to school with.  I know his wife from Michigan, too.  We will do fine with them."\par
"Then I think we need to work out what we are doing.  I really need to take some time to hear the Lord.  That is why we are here. Here to hear."\par
"Well, I hear the Lord mostly through His Word in community. Through other people. Usually women. Often from the preacher, and  Jake Profim, of all preachers, is here.  Probably our best preacher.  I feel so blessed, so privileged to be in his church, if we are not to have.  A wonder that we will be at his church!"\par
"I see your grateful heart.  That does me good.  Well, yes.  And this is his land.  It would be terrible to not attend his church.  He is taking care of us, you know. I met with him."\par
"Yes. I do know."  She left it like that.   He spent a while helping her put "this" "there", like a young married couple learning each other's ways. Or like a couple whose kids were grown and were finally at leisure, with time to discover each other.  Seminary had taken a lot of long hours and Jeannie had worked.  They had had somewhat separate lives for the last three years.  It was time to get to know each other again.  He had hoped to do that as pastor of a settlement, he remembered with a short, swift pang.  But trust God and move on, he told himself again. \par
"It's been a long time since we've had a decent vacation." She snuggled in beside him on the small couch, barely big enough for one. \par
"Yep," he said, and smiled. "I am looking forward to some prayer time, Bible study and quiet before the Lord."\par
"Dear, too much of that alone time and I will go crazy. I want some Paul time, and people time.  Girl talk. And God time of course, spending time before our Father in heaven. But a balance with people besides us."\par
"Yep.  I also like to keep my hands busy. I'll unhitch the trailer before bed."\par
"Dear, you did that already."\par
"I guess I have a lot on my mind.  I'm thinking about building something."\par
He was always either finishing up something, building something, starting something or planning something.  They had considered special recognition for the most number of birdhouses ever built while going through seminary, but they were sober, serious, solemn Eppers, without humor, and did not smile or laugh.  She put her head on his shoulder. At least they had a few days together before he started a project. \par
"Supper's on the table." \par
"I'll say grace," Paul said. He bowed his head.  There was something there that should not be, something seriously wrong.  It was hard to say grace. "Get out of here in the Name of Jesus," he suddenly said, and the feeling left.  He then said grace.\par
"I've felt the presence of something unholy a few times," Jeannie said,"Like something does not like us being here."\par
"I don't go demon-chasing.  If they show up, we will deal with them."  He did not mention the shadow he had seen to the south, whatever that was. "It seems to be gone now, anyway. Tell you what, let's sing 'A Mighty Fortress is Our God.'  We need to focus on Him, not on anything else."  And they sang it at the top of their lungs.  How good it was to worship the Lord!  \par

\pard\f1 "What's all that?"  Jeannie asked.  \par
\par
"Oh," Paul told her,"That's debris from the tornado. During prayer one night out here some people watched a tornado touch down half a mile southwest of here, roar through and then lift. They were praying, even rebuking the storm like those charismatics, but  the usable buldings were destroyed, including the stone chapel.  It didn't touch the old  farm.  No one was injured and no cars or campers were damaged  A hard rain following completed the ruin.  Afterwards they bulldozed the destroyed buildings into another mound of debris. All plans, hopes and dreams for the place were also flattened. People thought they were going to make something grand out of the place."\par
\par
Jeannie looked nervously at the sky. "This is tornado alley," she said.\par
\par
"I think they actually have more tornadoes in Mississippi than anywhere else."\par
\par
"Really?"\par
\par
"That's what I've heard."\par
\par
"I really don't want to stay too long in a trailer.  Not after seeing this." Jeannie pointed to a large mound of debris not too far away.  Paul picked up a stray board and threw it on the pile.\par
\par
"There's the gate."  The rusty red tubular gate was lying not far from the hinges.  A minute later he had it on its hinges, and five minutes after that it was well-oiled.\par
\par
"Heh," he said.  There was no hinge.  Probably they had closed it with a chain with multiple locks on it.  Without the chain it swung freely.  Two large rocks, one on each side, kept it in place. \par
\par
"Paul, I don't like this place.  There is something - like I am watched, or something.  Can we put a lock on the gate?"\par
\par
He shook his head.  He came from an Epper tradition in which you never locked anything, as the Lord was their defender.  "God will take care of us."\par
\par
"He made locks for a purpose," she pointed out.\par
\par
Paul decided that was not the time to press the point.\par
   \cf3\lang1033\par
\cf0 That night Paul had a terrible dream of Nazis camping right outside the trailer and a burning settlement in the background, bad enough that he woke shaking.  It took him days to shake the sense of evil. \par
\par
"Now I am tempted to put a lock on that gate," he told her, "but that is what it is - temptation.  That would be, for me, trusting man not the Lord."  He had that look he got when Jeannie knew there was no arguing with him.  Hadn't he been right any number of times and she had been wrong?  And, of course, there had been decisions that had gone the other way.  Later Jeannie would bring up getting a dog.  A nice, big, huge dog, with big teeth, a friendly dog for companionship.  \f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
\ul Paul and Jeannie Settle In\ulnone\line  \par
The next morning Jeannie got dressed to go into town to do some shopping for a few things that would help out life in the trailer, just a couple of things. While she was finishing up getting ready she heard the sound of a large truck and a clattering sound.  She looked out a window at her busy Paul.  He had obviously gone to town, bought lumber, built forms, hired a concrete truck and was now in the middle of pouring a slab.  A middle-aged man was there, too, helping him.  Maybe a retired-type, still vigorous, with a salt and pepper mustache and glasses under a MARINES ball cap. His t-shirt was sleeveless and it was clear he kept in shape from the hard muscles on his arms. \par
"What on earth," she said to Paul. He turned and smiled.\par
"Need to do this before the weather turns. We can pull the trailer up on it to keep out of the mud this winter. I cleared it with Jake.  Maybe no mud on this rock, but there is the idea."\par
"Paul, you want to winter here? How long will we be here? In a trailer?" But before she got the words out, Jake waved.  He was standing there, watching the pour.  He came over and shook hands.\par
"Betsy's feeling poorly or she would be here now.  Jeannie, you have an open invitation to drop by the manse.  But Paul suggested we get an electric line out here, and build a cabin, and drill a well, and put a septic tank and a lagoon so that you will be comfortable. I am paying for it - he showed me the plan he sketched this morning - it's small and will take him a month or so to build, but it will be a lot nicer than a trailer in the winter.  You are planning to stay, if there is a decent little house to stay in, I hope?"\par
"Well, yes. I mean,  well, yes.  I thought he was going to pray and study the Bible and sit quietly, even though that is not him, not really. He is very active, you know. I thought we'd be here maybe a week or so.  All winter..."\par
"He loves to keep busy with his hands. You should have power out here next week - the electric cooperative is happy to bring power out here, well, since I am paying most of it, and there isn't much of that sort of work, so it is keeping their crews busy.  But it has to come over from Nicholls."\par
"Oh, Jeannie, this is Sam. Sam, my wife, Mrs. de le Grande."\par
"It is nice to meet you, Sam.  Are you of the Epper Church?"\par
"Pleasure, Ma'am.  And yes, I am. Pastor Profim asked me to help Mr. de le Grande.  Sam Chips. "\par
"Well, let's get back to work," Paul said.  And they did.\par
After the slab was finished and Jake and the mixers were all gone, Paul pointed to the wood scattered over the face of the ground.\par
"Do you know anything about why there is all that stuff all over the place?"\par
"Well, yes.  I thought you knew.  There was a tornado that came through here two years ago in the  spring.  It was right after Pastor Profim\cf3\f1  \cf0\f0 obtained the property - the Muellers, who own this whole half of the county, liked his book and sold forty acres to him for $1.00, out of the blue, entirely unexpected.  No one had heard from them for fifty years or more, and no one really knew the family still existed.  But they have some people still alive, up in Minnesota. They are Catholic, not Epper, but they looked kindly on our pastor's book, which seems to be doing well in some circles."\par
"So he doesn't own the whole half of the county?  I think he said something about forty acres."\par
"It's about forty acres.  Anyway he owns this flat area, where the POW camp was during World War 2, and he has easements to it."\par
"But what is the wood from?"\par
"The tornado.  That was a shock."\par
"How so?"\par
"Well, the Benedictines had used the few servicable buildings that had been left standing. Most of the buildings were bulldozed into piles.  So we - not Pastor as much as some of the people from the Epper church  - got all excited about the possibilities of those buildings. A lot of us think Jake Profim has enormous potential, and so does this land.  We could have an Epper settlement here.  We could put in an airstrip and train missionary pilots.  We could build a big publishing house to publish his books.  We could do retreats, maybe a school or a hospital, all using those buildings.  We were infected, unfortunately, with a sense of our own greatness and destiny in that."\par
"How so?"\par
"Because we got really excited and carried away.  We were thinking things like we were going to do great things, with the assistance of God.  We would be known all over the world for our piety and the power of our ministry.  We would be materially wealthy.  There were twenty or so of us - still are - who really got carried away.  We thought of all sorts of things and the church in generally thought we had gone off the deep end.  We had. Pastor never agreed to any of it and said we really should wait until God made it clear as to what He wanted done.\par
"Anyway...When Jake took possession all twenty or so of us silly people came out here and did a prayer walk, claiming possession of the buildings in the Name of Jesus.  Some of the people who were camping out here - they are gone, now, as you can see - joined in, because they had 'caught the vision'.  Afterwards we realized we had no clear idea of what the vision was.  It was certainly not backed by Pastor or the church or anyone. It was our own silly conceit.  Because we had not even finished the prayer walk before a storm came up, even while we were praying in tongues  - I guess it is safe to tell you that - and casting out demons left and right and up and down and binding principalities and powers and prophesying and casting vision and everything, that storm came up, and there was a twister in it, and that twister touched down about a mile southwest of where we are standing.  That twister made a beeline for the buildings. We commanded it in the Name of Jesus to stop but it just kept coming. It took out all the buldings standing, but it did not hurt the campers or the old farm buildings - the ones you can see over there - and kept going for another hundred feet or so, and then lifted and was no more.  But then there was a blinding hard rain and lightning and thunder, and afterwards there was not one wall, door or window in place from those old buildings.  They had been on cinder blocks, no proper foundation, and dynamite could not have done a better job.  We were devastated.  What happened to our vision?"\par
"We asked Pastor.  He said it was OUR vision.  He had told us to wait on the Lord, but we got carrried away.  No one was hurt, but it was a lesson in eating humble pie, that is for sure.  We've cleaned most of it up but we could use a bulldozer on the rest, what with kids being around here now."\par
"Kids?"\par
"Well, the Profim childen. And if they are here, there will be others.  You are right, we should not leave it so sloppy.  We have been hesitant to do anything out here, anything at all, after that twister."\par
"I can see why."\par
"There is also the old quarry at the west end of this flat area - that has been a dumping ground for years: furniture, old tires, washers and driers, cars, clothes, whatever.  It's got an oil slick on the water, so there are no mosquitos, but we should, someday, clean that out as well.  But you can't do everything.  I just thought I should mention it, seeing as you will be out here.  And you know about Snake Woods?"\par
Paul said he had. \par
"Well, back to the story: we were impressed by Jeremiah 13:16: \i Give the Lord the Glory before He causes darkness, and before your feet stumble on the mountains in the twilight. \i0 We were giving ourselves the glory.  Now we give God the glory and thank Him for taking out those buildings.  I shudder to think what we would have done. We can only see it as His good hand and His divine providence, His lovingkindness and mercy.  God must have another plan for the place."\par
"I have no idea what it is.  Pastor is talking about raising horses out here, as a personal retreat. I don't see any reason to do any more.  If God does something, I am sure He will let us know when He pleases.  He often does things in unexpected ways, or in an unexpected direction.  His thoughts and ways are above ours, so much so that we have but a glimmer of His wisdom."\par
"Yes.  We stumbled in a darkness of our own making.  We got ahead of God.  Since then we are trying to walk behind Him, to follow Him, and also to walk beside Him as He moves us. We also took His Name in vain, because He had other ideas: it is folly to use His Name to stop a tornado that He caused."\par
"Are you sure it was not some sort of satanic opposition to the ministry here?"\par
"Yes, actually, we are.  Pastor said those buildings were barely useable - one of the reasons the Benedictines had abandoned the place was because the repair costs would have exceeded the value of the buildings.  He was considering tearing them down, but he didn't want to upset us.  They were temporary structures built in a hurry during World War II and they really hadn't been kept up much since.   The property is worth more without them.  And someone went through them and tore out all the wiring and plumbing.  Copper thieves, I guess."\par
"That must have been some disappointment."\par
"It was.  But I think we learrned our lesson on that one.  I hope so."\par
"I hope I learn my lesson everytime I see what I think is a setback.  I find what you are saying encouraging.  I just started a pastorate at a settlement that dissolved the second Lord's Day I was there.  I am still searching for the lesson for me from that one.  I know God is faithful. Pastor and I have been discussing it.  I'm out here to figure out what God wants me to do next."\par
"And we want to figure out what He wants to do with the land.  But then it may be a long time before He tells us."\par
"He speaks when He speaks.  Presumption is always a danger.  But then so is being stiff necked. If you ever master hearing Him clearly, let me know."\par
"Will do."\cf3\i  \i0  \cf0\par
Jeannie thought that was a whole lot better than trying to live all winter in a trailer, which she was working up to present to Paul.  Sometimes, she knew, it would take some effort, and she was still marshalling her arguments. But now there was no need. She'd planned to work on getting a house or apartment or something in town.  You know, with people around. But she knew when to just let Paul be Paul.  \par
"I need to show you something," Paul told Jake quietly, when no one was around.\par
Jake stared at the diamond still lodged in the trunk for a minute.  He said it looked exactly like an uncut diamond.\par
"Now that is a temptation."  He took his knife and carefully removed it from the trunk, hefted it in his hand.  They looked at the way the light came through it.\par
"You are right about the treasure hunters swarming the place if they find out about it. And I don't know who the rightful owners are. I mean, if this is the famous Phelps diamond, it is unclear to me who owns it, if anyone.  It would touch off a courtcase.  Nothing I want to be involved in. It has been hidden this long, so let it be hidden.  And we don't really know if it is that diamond or just a pretty piece of glass some joker put out here. I've heard more than rumor that some people are still trying to find the treasure. "\par
"It's your land."\par
"So I could be the owner. And I say, let it stay hidden.  I don't know what to do with it. It could cost me my little retreat out here, what with people trampling all over it and being hauled into court over it, and I have a church to pastor,  and you want your peace of mind, not a lot of time in court."\par
'How long would it take?"  Neither of them liked the idea of getting involved in legal action. Eppers preferred to settle things between themselves and the secular legal system was generally avoided, and over the centuries, had become something to fear.  You stayed away from the secular authorities as much as possible - that was the Epper way.  \par
With that they went to the old outhouse. Down the hole Jake dropped the stone, whatever it was, and they dropped in various loose pieces of wood and clods of dirt on top of it.  With that, they both put the diamond, and the treasure, out of their minds. Earthly treasure and riches were simply something that had no hold on either of their minds. \par
\par
\b Paul and Jeannie Settle In\b0\par
So they got their cabin.  Paul put up a thirty by fifty cabin in a month, working sixteen hour days six days a week. The weather was favorable mostly, and when it wasn't, he did work that would need to be done eventually.  Jeannie made friends in her Bible study, her prayer group, and in town in general.  What with being an ordained pastor's wife, she shared the role of a \i matushka\i0  with Jake's wife.  There was always more than enough to do in that role, and she was careful to be very deferential, as she had no desire to upstage Betsy.  But Betsy had small children and was recovering from a difficult childbirth and an ill infant: she was more than glad for someone else to do all the things a \i matushka\i0  typically did: organize the women's ministry, sanctuary decorations, seeing to the washing and cleaning of everything in the sanctuary, visiting the sick, organizing meals, on and on.  Jeannie had expected this as \i matushka\i0  in a settlement, but this was a church in a town, not a settlement, and so there were all these others: not everyone attended church. It was like the close community of a settlement, but there were lots of other people who were not Eppers.  She had grown up on a settlement, but she found herself, to her surprise, preferring a settlement in a town.  And so there was Local Outreach: the food pantry, gifts to the sick, etc., etc..  Jeannie was pleasantly busy as the cabin went up and through the following months. Paul heard about all this, and more.  He was pleased: she was happy, and that meant a lot to him.\par
Something was said at church, and furniture arrived to fill every room, all for free. Paul kept it to himself that he was a little disappointed, as he had hoped to build it all, but there it was. Jeannie was astounded.  They moved in on December 23.   Paul found a scrub cedar they could use as a Christmas tree, and there they were, all moved in until candidating would begin.  Paul did some odd carpentry jobs around town after that: there was food on the table and a better Christmas than they would have imagined a month earlier, a feast celebrated with a few people who would have had nowhere else to go.\par
Paul worked on a letter to send in answer to candidating inquiries.  As January winds and snow came he was restless.  He wanted to be working with his hands.  He whittled toys for children and small boxes.  He rebuilt the cabinet doors and  and then the doors and rehung them, more satisfied with them after that. He looked at his letter, and edited and revised it every day.  Where they would go was unknown - he had had five interviews last year, so it was likely he would get some this year as well.  After a little delay he would be doing what he had felt so called to do.  They would be well-rested.  He thought about a little quiet Epper settlement somewhere, hopefully one that did a lot of woodwork, of maybe two hundred adults, one in need of a pastor such as himself.\par
"God's will be done," he sometimes said in front of the mirror, stroking his beard.  Jake had reasoned that he was still a pastor, just not one with a settlement. Yet.  And a fuller beard would look more convincingly pastoral, so out it grew.  There was more grey than brown, and some white already, which was about to be expected.   \par
\par
One day Paul was working on the stone wall around the garden.  He looked up.  An Indian was standing there, not ten feet away.  The Indian was deeply tanned, wearing only a loincloth, his hair parted and braided, his hands empty.\par
"This is not land anyone live on," the Indian said,"land is not good for anyone. Good live somewhere else.  Not here.  Bad land here.  My people stay away.  You should stay away. Live somewhere else."\par
"Whaat?" Paul asked, startled. But the Indian turned and ran west.  Paul watched him until he was out of sight.  He never looked back and he never slowed down.  \par
There were Indian reservations in Kansas, but they were a long way away.  And Oklahoma was even farther.  Jeannie asked Jake if there were Indians about, and he said he had never heard of any around Nicholls.   It left Paul with an uneasy feeling, and from then on he kept a sharp lookout around himself in case the man returned.  But he never did.\par
\par
Sometimes he thought about torching the old farmhouse and barn, because they were safety hazards, but what if that uncovered more treasure, or something they thought was treasure? He would prefer to build a fence around them and leave them alone.  He was not tempted to eat the fruit of that particular tree. Too bad Adam had not built a fence around one tree in the Garden, but instead he had eaten of it. He kept this to himself, because he was not sure enough of Jeannie: she thought differently about things than he did, and if she knew and it tempted her to sell the diamond, perhaps he could be worn down.  So he was silent about it.  A secret is a secret only when you tell as few people as possible. He told himself that he was not tempted, but sometimes he would dream about retrieving the stone, going into town and selling it for a fortune.  He would be rich and famous.  But he was interested in neither of those things.  And he was dismayed, sometimes, that he dreamed about it. It had too much of a hold on his mind if he was dreaming about it. \par
His hands were longing for all-day tool use, his shoulders wanted to carry lumber, and his arms ached for lifting wood.  He loved to work.  He rebuilt the lunch bar at the diner in town, rehung doors, rebuilt a few sagging porches around town and put in a few inside walls while he was idle.  \par
"I haven't done you rightly, yet, in your kindness to me," he told Jake one morning after service. "I'm thinking of building you something else.  How about a shop or a storage building?"\par
"Well, my book sales have been going well. Perhaps I told you I have the funds to build a nice stable.  In fact, it has been on my mind as a recreation - raising horses in my own stable.  I would like a 20 horse stable.  Perhaps the Lord is leading us in a direction of horse therapy someday.  Or a retreat for the troubled.  In fact, I have a set of plans that I would love to have built.  I will bring them over later in the week."\par
He did, and as the weather cleared, wood arrived and a foundation was poured.  Lumber, nails, and as it warmed, paint, sand paper, varnish, shingles.  When he could, Jake would come and look at his stable and get a huge grin. It was a delight to his eye, a real pleasure, a dream come true, and he imagined raising horses was a quiet country occupation, one that perhaps he could retire to someday.  He said horses were calming to the soul, easier to care for than the souls of men who often seem troubled with intractable problems.  Jake felt like being a pastor was a step to something else, somethiing not yet revealed,  and he was hoping it involved raising horses someday.   Maybe using horses in rehabilitation?  Jake turned one room of the cabin into a library away from home, where he could write, and he would, indeed, write there: books, sermons, articles, away from the phone, away from the doorbell, with Jeannie and Paul understanding that when he shut the door, he really wanted to be alone.\par
Paul was pleased.  He had mastered, finally, quadruple-angled mortise and tenon joints, and concealed joints of every kind. The stable would be like a huge piece of furniture.  Paul could work quickly and well, and there was nothing ostentatious about the stable.  He was very pleased that Jake had not noticed how well it was constructed - Paul would rather Jake thought about its purpose than that anything he had down would draw attention to the details that he himself was concerned with.   He was a master carpenter, and this was of course a masterpiece, but it was solely to the glory of God, not in any way to glorify himself, and to the service of others in that glory. Jake had no idea of how well it was built, and Paul would never tell anyone. That was between himself and God. He thanked God for those skills, but they were on loan from God and not his own. He was careful not to credit himself with how beautiful the stable was. Only God needed to know that, and He did.  God also knew the flaws, of which there were a few, but those were there to keep Paul humble, so he accepted his own limits. \par
Jake would pick up the mail at the post office, if Jeannie had not done it, and bring it out and then wander around, looking at the land. Jeannie noticed that sometimes he would be frowning, or tense, on arrival, but humming when he left.  Paul spent most of his time on the stable.  It was rare he needed or asked for help, such as when he put up the trusses for the stable roof.  Then he would get a couple of guys from town, but he insisted on carrying everything, doing all the final alignment, driving all the nails.  It really was his stable. Well, no, it was God's. And Jake's.  Paul did not own it. He loved it, perhaps too much.  Then he would give it back to God.  And he never boasted about how well it was built. It was unlikely he would ever build anything better, what with age coming on, and it was not a small structure.  He would build again, but this stable was special to him.\par
\b The End of Some Hopes\b0\par
During an April thunderstorm Paul was hanging a stall door when Jake dripped his way into the stable and then approached Paul, carefully holding out the dry letter from the seminary's placement office that he had held under his raincoat. Paul carefully put his level down and quickly looked at the shims under and around the door, and then approached Jake. He knew what the envelope contained  from the return address, and it was far too thin for good news. "In the will of God," he said to himself. Jake's face said he knew it, too.\par
 He carefully and slowly opened the letter in the way he did everything.   It seemed that the 1968 class was the largest class ever, and unfortunately there were relatively few openings for pastors.  They were working on placing the students who were the most promising first, and it was doubtful that students in the bottom half of the class would be placed at all.  They regretted to inform him that they could do nothing for former students at this time and could not offer much hope in that direction.  As Epper bishops, settlements, colonies and churches sought pastors solely through the seminary's placement office, when looking for new pastors,  it appeared that door was closed. He relayed the news to Jake, then standing down at the far end of the stable, looking up at the triply-jointed corner head, where the post from the ground met the two runners along the top of the wall and the roof beams rose, all in one complex angled joint.  There were four of them, and you could not insert the edge of a thin piece of paper in any of them.  Paul was tempted to be proud of his work.  He knew Jake well enough to not go on about it.  Aside from the carefully concealed expansion joints, the stable was like one piece of wood.  But he pulled his mind back to the letter, still in his hand..\par
"I am sorry. I had a feeling it would go that way, but I was hoping it would go better than this."  Paul had met with the local bishop.  It was good, the bishop had said, that Paul had his carpentry skills. He was not expecting to fill any pulpits for years to come.  Paul was not one to dwell on disappointment or even think much about it.  Typically he simply moved on to the next thing in a few minutes or hours. \par
"Thank you,", Paul blew his nose long and loud, looked at his handkerchief, shrugged and carefully folded it and put it away."  I've been keeping up with the news.  The times seem to be changing, and that has affected us Eppers.  We are not so insulated from the world in our little settlements and colonies.  Many have closed as people have, it seems, gotten tired of living in little villages in the middle of nowhere.  The culture is pulling them into the cities.  Some no longer call themselves Eppers who once did.  It is not as though we have not felt the loss of numbers before, but somehow we survive. And you know that.  Well, the Lord gives and the Lord takes; blessed be the name of the Lord. Thank you for bringing me the letter." And he placidly went back to hanging the door.\par
Jake watched him for a minute."There is one more thing.  My wife and kids want two weeks out here, since we own it, and have not really spent any time.  That means we want the cabin for those two weeks. No, we are not turning you out - you can come back.  We will need house sitters for our house in Nicholls, so we will swap  for now, for those two weeks, if you don't mind. That will happen the last week of May and the first week of June, right after school is out."\par
"Ok, you know Jeannie. She will be thrilled to be in town," Paul said and then,"Is that it?"  and after a silence, he went back to hanging the door.\par
But Jake did not go away.  He stood there, looking at Paul for a minute. Paul put down his tools again and looked at his friend.  He blew his nose again, even louder than last time.  He would have to get another handkerchief.\par
Jake coughed slightly. "I hesitate to say it, but I thought you should know. You know my latest book?"\par
"Yes, I have read it. Excellent. You have a gift. Jeannie is using it as a devotional now. I am on my second reading. Very moving and helpful."\par
"Thank you." Jake was silent for a minute before saying, "It is under review by the Committee on Doctrinal Purity."\par
"I am sorry to hear that. Very much so.  Have they ever cleared anyone?"\par
"A few.  Most people, though, once it gets that far, are removed from the ministry. It may happen to me."\par
"Well, God will take care of you."  Paul looked around for another handkerchief. There was none, so out came the one. He did his best.\par
"And I am taking care of you.  I feel responsible here. And I understand the CDP and I do not wish them ill will.  The argument is that we are losing people because we have drifted away from the pure faith, from the apostolic deposit.  Several of our largest churches have become Reformed. One became Lutheran.  And others have left us.  It seems that happens with some of the churches in the cities.  Without the settlement model we lose our distinctives, one of which is of course close community.  We must return to our foundations to grow.  There is merit in what the CDP is doing, although I think there methods could draw criticism."\par
"Well, don't feel responsible.  Not to insult you at all, but you are His means at present, and He has many means."\par
"Responsible, anyway, to tell you.  You may get in a conflict of interest."\par
"Jake, I think you are solid in your faith. I have no problems at all with you on anything, not even on this whole healing kerfluffle."\par
"Keflufffe? You, an ordained pastor, say that moving against our denomination's beliefs is merely a kerfuffle?" Jake said that with amusement, but there was also a little reserve. He had not sounded Paul out on this subject. \par
"Let me put it to you this way, friend, and that is that what God says outweighs what the archbishop and the college of elders say.  They have been wrong before, and they may be wrong again.  And I will tell you that I think the CDP should not have freedom across dioceses and presbyteries - they should only deal with cases brought to them from so called lower courts, and there should not be what is turning into a permanent, for lack of a better term, inquisition.  Dijkstra last year, fully orthodox, fine, upstanding pastor, admired by his congregation, removed because of what?"\par
"He said these charismatic phenomenae are not necessarily heretical, that God can move through them.  He backed off somewhay, you know. Claims they are fully in line with historical Christianity."\par
"Not exactly backing off.  And he was removed.  I read the charge. And rumor has it - rumor - that he delivered some kind of a rebuke that he claimed was prophetic to the CDP! A warning from God! Amazing that anyone would have the nerve!  But I have been unable to obtain the text, and I have been advised that undue curiosity is always unhealthy.  May Dykstra have spoken with the mouth of God.  We pray that every Lord's  Day regarding the sermon, but it seems to have been somethink like extraordinary.   And where does that land you, and me? I believe healing is for today. I know you do. I am not at risk because they cannot remove me from a church. What church would they remove me from? There they cannot hurt me. And they can only touch settlement pastors.  It is not right to cower down. And you are, as you know, if I may be so bold, the golden boy of the denomination.  I think you could sway things.  Everyone knows your name.  Let the wind of the Holy Spirit blow through this stagnant old church of ours. Stiff-necked Pharasaism is not restricted to non-Eppers. There, I said it.  If I had a church they would try me. But I do not have one. I have crossed the line, now, I suppose.  I am very grateful for all you have done.  Allow me to express my loyalty to you, over and against the CDP.  Not brave words, because I have nothing to lose here."\par
"Yes, friend, I suppose you have crossed the line.  And loyalty to anyone except to Christ is dangerous, especially to me, the worst of sinners.  I would caution you to not view me uncritically."\par
"And I will tell you something: I do not think I am the only one with eyes and ears to see what God is doing.  I think many would join us."\par
"Us, huh.  Well, allow me to be guarded.  But it could also lead to a rupture. Eppers do not go into schism."\par
"If they push this business of strict doctrinal conformity beyond all reasonable bounds, I think there will be one.  It is not right to violate men's conscience in the name of unity and demand conformity.  That is an abuse of power.  That is not the Epper way.  The surrender of conscience to anyone but Christ goes against our teaching.  I am very concerned about some of what I have been reading.  Very concerned.  But who am I? A carpenter."\par
"We have always, always sought peace. I think there is truth in what you say.  Let me change the subject.  And one carpenter saved the world, if yoyou will remember. What do you want to do after you finish this stable?"\par
"I am thinking a barn. Horses need hay, and you do not want to have the hay in the same building.  It is a fire hazard."\par
"Well, someone needs to be here to watch all these nice buildings, at the very least. You are going to build a whole horse ranch here, I suppose?"\par
"Not a city. I like my privacy." Now Paul hesitated.\par
"This is going to sound weird, but I think I belong out here, building things, building things for you."\par
"Well, you are a very good carpenter, but I think you are going to run out of projects. I can't imagine ever needing any more than what you have in mind. But....I don't know. It is strange, it makes no sense, but it sounds right.  You can stay here as long as God calls you here.  I think God has plans for this place.  Ok, I guess I sound charismatic.  Not some pie-in-the-sky New Jerusalem; maybe just a retreat house for me.  But I don't want to be selfish. Perhaps others. A refuge from the world for some for a time.  But, Paul, you seem to be in a cleft in the rock. I am a little concerned there."\par
"Oh?"\par
"Moses was in a cleft in a rock.  But then so was Jeremiah's linen garment.  And the people in Isaiah 2 and i Revelations 6 hid from the Lord in the clefts of the cliff.  I want to be sure that you are here for the Lord and are not rotting, just because you think you are no good to anyone as a leader."\par
"Well, thank you for that.  I think, though, that there is some of both. There is the drawing close to God and the rotting away of human ambition, if it comes to that.  But I see growth in myself here."\par
"I do, too.  I don't think you are called to a traditional Epper pastorate.  God has something else for you, but I don't know what it is. He will make it clear in His time, I am sure. And I prefer someone be out here to watch the land, rather than keeping it vacant." \par
"Sounds good to me! The staying here part, I mean.  There is something wonderful about spending time out here alone.  Jeannie does not see it that way. Town is nearby and she has been making friends, so it works.  I feel refreshed, you know. I don't mind at all being out here."\par
"Except for those two weeks coming up. The kids are looking forward to it."  \par
"Well, you better keep them away from the old farm buildings.  They are dangerous."\par
"Yes. When you have time, you can torch them or tear them down, or tear them down and then torch them. Or just tear them down. I don't really care.  I will tell the kids to stay out. They mind, and we watch."\par
"There's something else, though, that has been on my mind. People talk about treasure out here.   People seek treasure, people seek to build a heaven on earth, a paradise. This of course cannot be done.  But why? Is God opposed to our living the best life possible? What social system or political organization are Christians called to? Separatism? Integration in the city? We Eppers have had both.  I suppose Nicholls was built as a sort of happy place for Marines.  We build settlements to worship God freely.  But what is best: the town system or the settlement?  A separate system that welcomes outsiders? A separate system that demands those who join conform to the culture? A distinct culture within a larger culture, or an assimilated culture that seeks to keep its integrity nonetheless? What is the treasure we seek?\par
The church is that society, not yet perfected but present, visible and invisible. How is it best expressed?  Have you thought about writing something on those lines?"\par
"Not really.  Frankly I am not all that interested in social structures as much as I am in individual people coming to Christ.  I'm thinking you are hinting that God is going to do more with my little patch of land than a horse ranch, but I really don't think so." He paused.\par
"Eden of course was the prototype - the original 'city of God', the ideal situation. We were, I think, supposed to build settlements - small Edens - all across the planet, all small cities of God. But then came the Fall, and the loss of paradise.  Yet we see Cain building a city, Enoch, just about first thing.  Man is a social animal and cannot be separated from his society. Yet society is a sum of the people in it - I don't like that word, and perhaps aggregate would be better, and the whole, via synergy, is bigger than the parts - the weak point in the system being the individual.  Can water flow upstream? Can the society be better morally than its components? I think the questions you are asking are good, don't get me wrong. It's just I find myself in an existing situation, the Epper Church, in an existing society, Nicholls, and that neither are really open to change.  Possibly some day, but the care and cure of souls is my concern more than their social structure."\par
"As for this land - it seems to be worthless.  Not enough dirt for farming, not enough grass for cattle.  I think they poisoned the soil around the flat area - I am guessing this is where the old POW camp was, and they cleared all the brush around it down to rock.  It seems like much of the soil around it blew away long ago.  The Muellers gave up on it nearly a century ago, if not a little more, and no one else has tried."\par
"I have thought about how a worker in wood like me is living in a place of rock more than once," Paul smiled.\par
Jake nodded. "The kingdom of God is the treasure, if there is any, and this is the not the only place it is.  There is really nothing special about this place.  Some talk about me being a bishop someday, and there has been foolish speculation about my being an archbishop eventually, which of course we have never had.  No, I find pastoring a challenge and I take refuge in the solitude here, the peace and the quiet.  The land has that.  But reorganizing society? I think that is beyond you or me, my friend."\par
They talked a few minutes longer, and Paul returned to the stall door when Jake was gone. There was his mess of a handkerchief.  He picked it up by a corner, but it was perfectly dry. His nose was no longer dripping, either.  That gave him something to think about as he propped the door exactly and lined it up, exactly level, so it would swing level and true and easily. Carpentry was art and praise to God.  He recalled the story of an ancient pastor in a time when the bishops had to be widowers, and he had married a sickly young woman, thinking somehow that would be his ticket to a bishopric.  But he never became a bishop, as his wife became his widow.  The schemes of men blow away in the wind.  \par
On three fine June days, the temperatures in the seventies, the wind just right, soft and gentle, the sunshine mild, the ranchers of and townspeople of the Nicholls church staged a barn raising. Their whole families came out and camped and picnicked. There was a mountain of food and there were games - sober, Epper games, but games nonetheless, despite the cautions against frivolity and the sombre, solemn, sober manner of play, to demonstrate they were about God's business and NOT there for pleasure, or, God forbid, fun, and foot races, arm-wrestling and tug-of-war, and singing in the evening around the campfire. There was a funereal atmosphere and some concern that they were enjoying it too much.   The old oak tree disappeared into the fire, what wood of it was good.  \par
The men brought their own firewood. "There is a tree-line south of  here, if you go south about a mile, you can see the tops of the trees," Paul pointed out. "Oh, no. That is Snake Wood," he was told. "Don't go near it.  There is a kind of especially dangerous rattlesnake there and in the tall grass near it. People have talked about Snake Woods on the Mueller land since before I was born." Everyone else agreed. There were stories of people who approached the Wood and had died, right there on the spot, and people were afraid to retrieve the body. It had happened several times, long ago. And recently, a teenager had snuck onto the property and had been bitten and died.   \par
"Any time since?"\par
"No. This land has been deserted, except during the treasure seeking days.  Sometimes a teenager will come out here on a dare.  Some have died doing so.  That stops it for a few years, then someone else."\par
"What is that all about?  I've heard a little about the Mueller treasure.  Is it legend, do you think"\par
"There is supposed to be treasure buried out here. That is the rumor.  People have looked but never found anything.  They dug up all the topsoil looking."\par
"And then the soil blew away," someone added,"prairie wind."\par
"And some of them died trying to approach Snake Wood."\par
"Yep."\par
"Do tell."\par
"Some people say it was from a wagon train coming up from New Mexico."\par
"Other people say it was from bank robberies.  The wagons came here, and the Mueller men ran off after hiding it.  Or what a gang of bank-robbers hid during the Civil War."\par
"Why would they do that?"\par
"That's the story.  Maybe the Muellers were in on it, this being their land.  I guess maybe the law was after them."\par
"They were supposed to be guarding the treasure. It didn't work out that way."\par
"Just a story."\par
"But there were Muellers. This was their land, and their farm.  They abandoned it in the 1880s and moved far away. "\par
"There's no proof, is there?"  There were shrugs.  Blythewood's grave could be found. Newspaper clippings told of the lynching, but the Muellers were not mentioned. \par
"How come no one has ever settled it since?"\par
"The snakes, I guess. And it is really rocky." He slapped his foot against the rocky ground to emphasize it. "Less than two inches of dirt, if any, most places, and a lot of it has blown away."\par
Matt Pfingster, with land north and east of Nicholls, was leading the barn raising when it was clear Paul had never done it before.  Paul simply wanted to work, not lead.  There were some knowing looks: Jake had talked him into leading a men's Bible study, him being a pastor, but the numbers had dwindled until Paul was sitting by himself in the room on Sunday mornings, happily and carefully copying the Greek text by hand like a scribe in the days before printing.  He had retreated into himself as part of his time out on the land, and Jake didn't know quite what to do.  It was clear to Jake his future would not be in the pastorate.\par
Paul had put a woven wire fence up, half-encircling the old barn and farmhouse.  Jake realized he had never really looked at either.  He walked around the end of the fence on the sparse, short grass that had found scarce holes in the rock, and came up to the porch of the farmhouse.\par
He froze.  There was a rattling sound: rattle snakes. They were inside, under the leaves and debris he could see from the doorway.  Were they the really lethal ones everyone was afraid of, or a common rattler?  He decided it didn't matter; he didn't want either to strike.   He backed off and looked at the barn but did not enter it.  He thought it was unwise to enter. Then there was the old chickencoop, and some other buildings whose purpose he could only guess at what they once were.  Here the grass was a little thicker, and he decided not to go poking any more.\par
Jake told Paul about this.  "They aren't bothering us, and I haven't seen any mice, so I guess they are taking care of the problem," he replied. "Let's leave them alone."  Paul completed the wire fence around the old buildings and let them be. \par
Paul turned his attention to spreading the dirt out from the closest pile, enough that it would be good and thick enough on the ground for a medium-sized garden. Ants had made their homes in the piles, he found, and he could only get the dirt with some care, as the ants bit.   He planted a vegetable garden, but the main thing he seemed to grow was deer.  Animals would come in the night and eat what he had planted.  He fenced the garden and they still got in. \par
\b Calm Years\b0\par
Paul dug a pond and with the rock he had quarried he built a wall around his garden, and that kept the animals out. As the years passed he grew enough to sell a little and live on what he sold to the Nicholls Market.  He bought chickens, raised a few pigs, got a cow, but no horses - he felt they were a luxury, as he didn't do that much plowing.  He had a small tiller and that was enough for his needs.   Jeannie got herself involved in town, in women's societies, clubs, the church Women's Group, and he kept himself busy building, planting, growing, weeding. He was always on the watch for deer and snakes.  He could count on shooting a deer a year for the first four years, but after that they avoided the area.  He went hunting further away.\par
Early one September day in his hunting he hiked south, and the line of trees rose before him as he walked.  He found the prairie ended suddenly: the short grass and rock surface dropped away steeply, and as it went down the grass became longer and even lush, down to where there were outlier trees and then thick trees, a vine-laden dense wildwood rising higher than the land to the north, so thick he could not see more than a few feet into it.  Despite the warnings he had received, something drew him to it.  He made a cautious descent to where the grass was thick, rising to his knee, so thick he could no longer see dirt. He looked and listened for snakes.  He could see a few here and there in the tree branches, even in the nearest outlier, an oak. There were clouds of flies here and there  They were not moving.  Hearing nothing, he set his right foot into the tall grass. Immediately a snake struck his boot, and Paul pulled the boot back.  It had not penetrated, but it was still on his boot.\par
It was a rattlesnake about five feet long.  It loosened itself and without looking back it slid back into the tall grass. He stared at it until he could see it no more.\par
"Maybe," said Paul, backing out, "Maybe whoever it was scraped all the dirt away just to keep the snakes out of where people were."\par
At the top of the rise his heart was still pounding even though it had not been very far.  He looked to his left, and far away he could see a greenish area.  Curious, he found the land lowering until he came to a large flat area of rock with shallow, algae-covered water.  The mosquitoes were humming, and he retreated, slapping as he went.  More alarming were the horseflies, one of which pursued him for a quarter mile as he made his way westward.  He continued on to where the woods ended with a shallow, treeless gully that rose westward. This he crossed and found the south situation the same as the north, with the rocky soil being the worst right at the edge of the slope down into the woods, the grass lusher as it dropped, and the enormous trees.   He watched a flock of sparrows suddenly leave the canopy: perhaps the snakes were active.  He walked again toward the green area, but did not get too close.  Then he resumed his hunting, and the grass grew taller and more prairie-like as he moved away from the ravine, which he was sure was Snake Woods.  \par
\par
From that day he and Jeannie never set foot outside without heavy boots on and a staff to handle a snake with.  But they never saw one.  They seemed to be confined to the area around the old buildings and then down around Snake Woods.  Paul left the snakes alone, and they left him alone. "Fair is fair," he said.  He would warn visitors about the snakes, and as the years passed his warnings grew: "one drop of their venom and you are a goner. You fall over, dead." He supposed the people and animals had been bitten by aggressive snakes and their bones were still in there.  Sometimes people went up to near, but not too near, the woven wire fence around the old farm buildings and looked at the tall grass now in there - for a while Paul had dumped manure over the fence until he had better uses for it, and the grass in there was thick and green most of the time, as well as high, so that the buildings rose grey and ghostlike out of a threatening, forebidding sea of grass.  He intended to torch everything in there, someday, it was just he had other things more pressing. \par
\b The First Newcomers \par

\pard\cf3\b0\f1\lang1033\par
Then people began to arrive, first Eppers capable of being self-supporting even to the point of building their own housing (which Paul was more than happy to help with) and raising their own food (which Jeannie, as a master gardener, was there for), a challenge on the rocky groun.  These were highly resourceful, hard-working, competent and able-bodied Eppers used to arduous settlement life. Services began.  Nonetheless they found the land especially challenging, as no one builds a settlement in such a place. Some of the early Eppers, when they became numerous enough, formed a settlement in the north of the county, where the land was more fertile.  This was New Hope. Great Plains formed, but when it was time to choose a location, they opted to leave Nicholls County.\par
\par
The second wave had Eppers, but mostly consisted of people who were seeking God in the Refuge City they had heard was being built here.  Some were unable to care for themselves, some sick, elderly and disabled arrived, or had what was termed 'life-issues', who came for healing or counsel. Some were trainable, some were asked to leave, all of which took time and effort.  The Eppers attempted to meet all these needs, but some needs were overwhelming. Jake was willing and able to give, but sometimes he would forget, and it depended both on what his road ministry brought in and his own expenses. Nothing had prepared him for supporting whatever was happeniing on his property while he was fully engaged in road ministry, and teaching, research and following the many doors that had opened to him was more than a full-time job. His donors opined that there was no reason for giving these few people any money to simply live on the land, when he mentioned it. Supplies and money were irregular: whenever Jake would remember them, and he had no financial sense or idea of how much was needed: his mind did not work that way. The Epper settlements on the property were struggling and could only do so much.  They were also continually pointing out that the Ranch could not continue as it was but it needed to become self-sustaining.  With that in mind, New Hope cut off all aid after three yearrs.  They warned Paul after a year of helping support what was happening, and then gave him a two-year deadline. They kept their word.\par
\par
\cf2 "It's like a giant treasure chest," Joyce said. Abram Boom nodded.  Before them stretched the old quarry, full of old washing machines, tires, lawn mowers, refrigerators, even some cars, all sitting in the greasy water that rose to the top of the quarry and trickled its oily way over the rock until it gave up on it. Eppers never threw anything away, and here they had a glorious bounty.  There was no telling what was in the old garbage bags, the tree branches, the abandoned televisions and cans.  Cans, for example, were good metal and you could remake them into all sorts of useful things, or even use them again as cans.  \cf3\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f0\lang9\par
In 1972 Jake moved his family into the cabin after Paul built one for himself and his wife. Paul's new  cabin was half house, half woodshop.  Jeannie and Betsy continued to hit it off very well. They had been prayer buddies while their husbands were in seminary.\par
Paul was happily tilling the garden one fine May day in 1976 when he looked up and two men and a woman stood beside Jeannie, three small chldren with them.  There was a lump in his throat as he thought of the children they had wanted but found out they could not.  Once again, as had become habit, he considered the good wisdom and providence of God in this withholding.  Still, he sighed.   He recognized Kitten from church.  The others looked dirty and unhappy.  He sighed again, this time at the obvious loss of tilling time, and shut off his tiller.\par
"Paul, this is Isaac Bread and his wife and family. Anna, Paul, Paul, Anna. And Sarah and Gabriel and - "\par
"Micah," said the youngest, staring at him with big eyes, thumb in mouth.  \par
"You know Kitten. Jake sent them over.  Paul was a missionary pilot in Borneo. Until recently."\par
"And you are no longer welcome among them.  The CDP?"\par
Isaac nodded.  He looked discouraged and defeated.\par
"Well, we can put you up and feed you for the night-"\par
Jeannie interrupted, "No, Paul, you don't understand.  They have no place to go.  Jake has invited them to live here. He saw them at a conference he was at."\par
"Well," Paul said, after a pause,"It is his land." Jake was spending much more time away at home, at these conferences.  After another pause,"I'm sorry. What was I thinking? I sound so inhospitable."\par
"Yes you do," said Jeannie, but not in a condemning way. She could do that.\par
Paul looked back at the tiller longingly, unhappy at work interrupted, then shook Isaac's hand.  "Cheer up, old man," he said, "there is plenty of work to be done here. Work puts joy in the heart and pleases the Lord."\par
Jeannie said,"Yes, he said that. Paul loves to work. He actually said that. My Paul is the incarnation of the Epper Work Ethic."\par
"Seriously?"\par
"Seriously.  You know the Protestant work ethic? It goes home at sundown but the Epper work ethic works until midnight, then rises before dawn."\par
"So they say. I've heard that before."\par
Kitten said he, too, had work to do, back in town.  He said his goodbyes.\par
Paul returned to tilling and the others went back to their cabin together, the women talking of sleeping arrangements, showers, clothes, food, chilcare, girl-talk.  They had one change of clothing.  They had had to leave most of their things in Borneo because it would be too expensive to bring them back. It would take six months or more for Isaac to regain a US pilot's license, and then he could find a job then, maybe. \par
Paul and Jeannie realized they were no longer alone on the property, as Jake often took his family with him when he went on the road and was gone more than he was here.  Jeannie was elated because there would be another woman to talk to. Paul was elated because he could build them a cabin. And there would be another pair of hands to do things. They ate a crowded lunch and then Jeannie took Isaac's wife and kids to town for clothes, after a shower and some baths. Paul reminded them to get sturdy boots.\par
That left the two men, silent, the new man staring at the other tilling. Paul sighed and shut off the tiller and came up to Isaac.\par
"Well, I hope you and - what was your wife's name?" Paul asked.\par
"Anna."\par
"I hope you are comfortable here.  How about if we build you a house?"\par
"Thanks, and Jake was going to ask you to. That would be fine.  I mean, fantastic."\par
"Do you have a good pair of boots?"\par
When the women returned they found Paul back at the tiller, and Isaac was following, dealing with large clods via a shovel, anything that had been missed.\par
When the tiller was off, at the sight of the women and children, Isaac told him, "You need to work manure in here, and some sand. It looks like fine soil, though."\par
"Yep." Paul had traveled some miles north and found the South Fork of the South Grand River, little more than a glorified, cottonwood lined creek,  and there was dirt that could be taken.  He didn't even have to go down into the creek, because there was a large muddy area not so far from where he could park a truck.  It was still on the property, which now extended to the full half of the county. \par
"Daddy, Daddy! Look at my new clothes!" Sarah was held back from charging in them into the newly tilled garden.\par
"It looks nice."\par
"Your turn," said Anna,"You need some clothes. Here." She handed him a thick wad of cash. You and Paul go into town - Paul knows where everything is - and get yourself some clothing. I think you will need overalls. Look at what you have done to your slacks."\par
"And boots." Paul was not exactly thrilled about taking anyone clothes shopping, but it had to be done. Most of the tilling was done, anyway, and the tiller was not going anywhere. He sighed and took Isaac shopping.  There was no arguing with the women sometimes. \par

\pard\cf2\f1\lang1033\par
Paul saw Jake excommunicated and laicized, which spurred on Jake's road ministry, as he was now free of pastoral duties and able to reach non-Eppers.  Paul continued to build.  He hired himself out as a carpenter, still living on the land. After all, the buildings needed watching. He looked at the few remaining buildings from the old POW camp but preferred to build new, not rehab, and he thought the old farmhouse, barn and outbuildings far beyond repair.  \par
\par
\par
\par
The first service on site was after Jake had been cast out of the denomination.  Half the Epper church in Nicholls followed him and it was outdoors, liturgical, without electricity, on a sunny morning in the sun.  The next week there was a big tent they had church under.  An early division into two services was when the Russians showed up, Jake being Dutch Epper, and requested the women sit on the left and the men on the right, instead of the mixed seating.  They agreed to do a Dutch-style service and a Russian-style service.  American charismatics arrived who wanted a more contemporary service, and they took the bold step of abandoning the liturgy for a more charismatic style one, yet retaining all the elements of the liturgy.  It initially satisfied no one but with time they came to something they could all live with, and the services became open ended, meaning worship started sometime before dawn and continued until after sunset, with the sermon, Communion and prayer in there somewhere, generally in the later morning.  The Russians relented from segregated seating and a few other matters they had insisted on.  For several months the sermon was delivered once in Koine and then again in English, but it did not seem a good use of time and they went with an English only service.   \par
\par
Roger Sallow was gifted with unusual insight into the situation. He suggested they hold services on the property when it was not yet clear they should do so, and that they should get a tent rather than build something.  He had a number of good ideas but also a number of spectacularly bad ones, such as the idea of forcing everyone into the English liturgy and creating their own Committee on Doctrinal Purity.  He got vetoed on both.  He was an active member from the 1960s into the 1980s, when he and his wife moved with a settlement into somewhere in Kansas. \par
\par
Roger also was a defender of Paul against some grumbling - Paul, he said, walked with God, neither ahead of Him nor behind Him, but beside Him as a friend, in harmony with God.  What was important to God was important to Paul; when God moved, Paul moved, and when God was still, Paul was still.  He cited Ezekiel 1 and 10. Like Abraham he was the friend of God.  But Roger also was not afraid to respectfully rebuke Paul when necessary, although that was seldom.  On rare occasions he would tell Paul a decision would have to be made.  Paul referred to Roger in later years as a latter-day prophet, but Roger rejected the title and the office.  He said he was just a Christian living as obedient a life as he could, and was no prophet. \par
\par
"I tend to think evangelicalism is dead," Jake said one day. "Encrusted, rusted, rotted; we care more about doctrine, and I mean doctrine in its dullest, driest, most dreary form, and we care more about how right we are than about living truth and the living God. Every year we need to shake off whatever theology has grown stale and let it grow again.  Let the leaves fall and sprout new growth, prune the dead branches iin us and show the world we are living branches on the true vine, not dessicated, dry leafless, joyeous brittle branches that should just be tossed in a fire."\par
\par
"And what form should that new growth take?" Paul asked him.\par
\par
"I don't know.  If I could point someone in the right direction, I would.  There is much to commend in this charismatic movement, but there is also much that dismays me. God is alive but He is objectively true. So much of it seems to be tingles and irrationalities, even anti-reason rather than grounded in truth.  I fear for us Eppers. It seems we have gone too far in one direction and there may be no return. As if we ourselves have died and we do not know it yet."\par
\par
"We are the walking dead, as you put it not so long ago.  Revived yet mortified. Alive to the things above, dead to the things of earth."\par
\par
"Yes."\par
\par
On the road Jake offhandedly told an Epper concerned about his case before the Committee on Doctrinal Purity that all exiles were welcome at his place west of Nicholls.  That started a rumor that Jake was starting a refuge city of exiled Eppers.  Jake preached a series of messages on the road of the city of God as a refuge city, which was widely misinterpreted to be him founding a refuge city on his land.  Others heard it was to be a charismatic community, still others a center for praise and worship, and others that it was to be a hybrid settlement of all Christians, where Eppers and non-Eppers would live in Spirit-powered unity.  \par
\par
 \par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f0\lang9\par
Paul and Isaac were in the garden, sowing seed, when two over-the-road trucks with trailers  arrived. They loudly roared through the gate and then stopped not too far from the cabins.   Like yesterday, there had been no word of their coming.  Paul started wondering about how he was supposed to get any peace and quiet.\par
In the deafening sudden silence, the drivers stepped out. By the time Paul reached the trucks, Jeannie was already there.  The lead driver was a short and bald man that you expected would be smoking a cigar, only he wasn't, and he didn't. But something about him suggested that.  A woman about the same age carefully climbed down from the second truck and stood close beside him.  \par
"Is this the Profim property? Jake Profim, the ex-Epper preacher?"\par
"Yep."\par
"I'm looking for a fellow named, just a minute," he fished in his pocket, "Paul de le Grande. Do you know him?"\par
Paul raised his hand. "That's me," he said.\par
"I'm Roy Dunbar."\par
"Roy Dunbar? Are you the Roy Dunbar who runs \i the Epper Epistle?\par
\i0 "Well, I was.  I have been removed after the CDP had reviewed some of my editorials - it seems what I have to say is not doctrinally pure, and not only that, neither am I. The short of it is I am out, and Jake heard about it, and invited us here. It seems he needs someone to help get his books to market. I know people in the business, and grammar, and can edit and so forth."\par
 Four kids of varying heights had arrived with them, and were now running around. They looked to be between ten and four. They met the Bread children and formed their own conversation.\par
"I'm Joyce Dunbar," Joyce said.  There were further introductions.\par
"You have two trailers of household goods?" Paul asked.\par
"No, none."\par
"What is in them, then?"\par
"Junk."\par
"Junk?"\par
"Junk. Joyce is a certifiable scrounge. A packrat extraordinaire.  We managed to leave home with little and arrive here with two large trucks full of -"\par
"Junk," Joyce finished, quite calmly.\par
"Yes. Junk. Machine parts, mainly.  Some lumber,  I think.  Junk. You wouldn't believe it if i told you."\par
"I find things. I keep them. People find use for them." She shrugged.\par
"They do.  It is amazing.  That is my Joyce."  \par
Paul said,"Do you have a rock pick in there?"\par
"I have a broken 1964 diesel rock pick in there, yes I do."\par
"How about an electric can opener?" This was Jeannie," and a sewing machine?"\par
"Mmmmm." She thought for a minute,"Both, but they both need a bit of work."\par
They converted the Hanger into temporary living quarters for the Dunbars, with most of their stuff under tarps there and the doors shut.  Half of the hanger was devoted to Joyce's "junk" which  she carefully arranged. Paul looked at it: most of it was broken mechanical equipment, radios, tvs, small appliances.  There was an enormous amount of cloth, the sort you make clothes out of, and canvas, the sort you make into sails or tents.  There was a good amount of sheet metal,enough for a small building. The trucks belonged to the Dunbars.  Like good Eppers, they explained that they were now at the service of the settlement. \par
"Settlement?"  a pain went through Paul.  Was this a settlement? What was Jake planning?  He shoved that thought aside.  What was God planning?  He was along for the ride, and the pain went away. \par
"I had to leave most of it behind, what I had back then, in fact all of it," Joyce explained,"This just showed up coming here.  It it is free for the taking. Most if not all of it was given to me."\par
"Why did you bring it?"\par
"I thought it would be useful." \par
"What we need is a watchmaker, a fixer of small appliances."\par
"That's not me, I just find stuff."\par

\pard\f1 The next day the Dunbars, Roy and Joyce, arrived. They arrived in two large over the road trucks \lang1033 full of junk that she said the Lord had told her to bring.  Her husband, fired from his position at the \i Epper Epistle\i0  due to a favorable article he wrote on Jake Profim, and then exiled, began working at the local paper in Nicholls. \par
\cf2\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1  \cf0\f0\lang9\par
The next day Amram Boom and his family arrived.  He had been in an Epper settlement that had the head of the CDP in it, and now he was homeless.  He was a jovial soul nonetheless, under the Epper veneer of solemnity.  He brought Jochebed his wife, and his children Miriam and Moses and Aaron.  "God has a sense of humor, and so do I," he said. "When I met a Jochebed, I had to marry her. And then we had a daughter, and then two sons, and so here we are."\par
"No one can accuse you of not being Scriptural."\par
"I should hope not! But it happened, and here we are!" \par
"Ooooh," he said, when he saw the neat rows of junk. "Oooh," he said again.\par
"It's a real pile, huh?" Isaac asked him.\par
"No, an opportunity. You see, I fix things. Like clocks," he said, picking one up, "Like can openers," he said again, picking one up, "all manner of small appliances and small engines. Not cars, but other things, up to tractors." \cf2\f1\lang1033 He managed to build useful things out of scrap in a singularly amazing way. \cf0\f0\lang9\par
\cf2\f1\lang1033 On his first night he had a disturbing dream about heading south from the camp and digging up thirty pieces of silver in a field covered with blood.  \cf0\f0\lang9\par
It was not long after that that the Profims and the de Le Grande households both had fixed electrical can openers.  They found a use for the repaired rock pick and the repaired rock saw, as a quarry operation got under way. They avoided the debris-filled quarry and began one of their own, just south of that one.  They were hoping they could eventually drain the larger one and eliminate any possible mosquito problems.\par
 One day Paul looked up from his work.  In front of him was Arthur Cove, two years behind him at seminary.  While they had had no classes together, they knew each other. Arthur Cove had been well known as an up-and-coming pastor, full of promise, with his relationship with Christ known and respected.  The \i Epper Epistle\i0  had run more than one article on him, featuring him as "one of our brilliant young men God has called into the ministry." And he had led twenty young people on a mission trip into Malawi that had gone very well. Paul had looked forward to his sermons in chapel - at seminary everyone took a turn at the daily chapel service - and Arthur had been asked to fill in more than once when someone else had to give up a turn for various reasons. He was fluent in English, Koine, Dutch and Russian, his Hebrew was conversationally competent, and his Latin not bad, with a dictionary at his side. He could exegete a passage at the drop of a hat and made amazing connections that made you wonder why you had not seen it, it was so obvious.  Everyone had said he was a shoo-in for a plum pastorate. \par
 "Hello, Arthur," Paul said, stretching out his hand.  But Arthur stood tensely, his hands on his hips. \par
"Paul de le Grande," Arthur said, now shaking hands,"They told me you were here."\par
"Well, whoever they are, they were right. Here I am."\par
"I thought you got a pastorate."\par
"Well, yes. I did. But the colony disbanded."\par
"I am sorry to hear that."\par
"Thank you.  What brings you here?"\par
Paul was surprised that Arthur was almost at the point of tears. "The Committee on Doctrinal Purity found my theology too questionable in the area of charismata."\par
"That happens.  Do you mind telling me what, exactly?"\par
"I believe, with the historical Epper church, that God heals today. The Holy Spirit has not withdrawn the miraculous gifts. I would not recant.  So they threw me out."\par
"I see.  Many have walked that path."\par
"And they come here, to this place."\par
"Some have, yes.  It seems to be a refuge from the CDP."\par
I thought I would be a pastor. But here I am in this desolate place."\par
"It's not so desolate." Paul waved his hand around at the barren, rocky flat area they were beginning to call the Midbar, where nothing would grow, and the low treeless prairie without feature or break. "Well, maybe it is."\par
"I have nowhere else to go."\par
"That is the story of many."\par
"I feel like the waistband - the ezor - belt, kilt, underwear, whatever it was - in Jeremiah 7, that got stuck in a rock just to be ruined."\par
"You know, Jake Profim brought that passage to my attention years ago and I have thought about it a lot.  You can either rot in a hole and become perfectly worthless, or you can regard it as a cleft in the rock, and behold the glory of God go by. It is up to you."\par
"I hadn't thought of it that way."\par
"How long was Moses in the wilderness"\par
"Forty years."\par
"There you go."\par
"But I want God to use me \i now\i0 .  I have teaching gifts.  I can write."\par
"He is under absolutely no obligation to use you in any way that you desire.  That linen ezor was probably expensive.  If He is pleased to throw away a gift, so be it. And you don't know if your usefulness is at an end.  But as long as you insist on Him using you now, rather than deferring to Him, He cannot use you.  We will not use you - there is a danger there, a root of bitterness that must be removed before you can be of use."\par
"You won't let me teach or preach?"\par
"Not until I see change in you."\par
Arthur looked even unhappier. "Perhaps there is a settlement  where-'\par
"No. I think God has brought you here, now, to bring this to light.  There is a danger when we so identify with our office or ministry that we think of ourselves as that thing.  First is Christ. Then the gift.  Your gifts come from Him, right? He does not come from the gift. I am sorry to be so blunt."\par
"I take what you said as gentle and kind, though hard.  Thank you, Pastor de le Grande."\par
"Gentleness is not the same as being nice.  You are welcome." Arthur began walking out.  Paul returned to his rabbet joint for a second.\par
"Arthur!" he called. \par
Arthur was back.\par
"Yes, sir."\par
"Do you know anything about carpentry?"\par
"Not a thing."\par
"Here. Grab a piece of that sandpaper and start sanding down the piece over there on the sawhorses.  I could use another pair of hands."\par
"Sure thing." \par
"Sand with the grain. Long, slow strokes."\par
"Got it."\par
\par
"This is it, huh."  Paul looked up to see the speaker, what he would call a generic American, standing there in jeans and tennis shoes, a man in his early thirties, hands in his pockets, a look of self-indulgence.  There was one of those VW vans in the background, and a woman, also in jeans, was halfway-in, halfway out.  Paul frowned.  Women in pants was not something he was -"\par
The man was still talking to him, in a whiny, self-indulgent way. He was WIlson. He had found Jesus. He had learned to speak in tongues.  He had stood against his Baptist Church, and they had thrown him out.  He had shaken the dust from his feet and had come here, because he had heard this was a refuge city.\par
"Well, for Eppers, I suppose," Paul said.  Every sentence starting with "I" was not something Paul liked, nor a stranger, in the American manner, coming up on first meeting someone and telling their whole life story.  What did a lot of it matter?\par

\pard\f1 "We work hard here," Paul told Wilson.  Wilson's arms indicated that work was not something he was used to, and his hands and face just looked soft.  In the days to come he expressed great admiration for the \lang1033 Epper work ethic but somehow managed to avoid working whenever he could, and grumbled when he did work.  He was always angling for one of the houses already built.  His wife Judy however pitched in - she had a degree and experience in hotel management and knew how to feed large numbers of people, something Jeannie found invaluable,and she was a hard worker even by Epper standards. If they had both been like her husband they would have been asked to leave.\cf2\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f0\lang9\par
\b First Services on the Land\par
\b0 Fred Sands and the rest of the elders were standing on the front stoop of the church, looking grim as Paul and Jeannie rounded the corner from the parking lot. They were carrying big bags of canned gherkhins for giveaway.  \par
"Sorry, Paul," Fred said,"You cannot attend. None of you living on the Profim property may attend any longer. We are also, now, looking for a new pastor.   Orders." The other elders nodded. A few looked embarrassed, one looked away and would not meet Paul's eyes.\par
"It's that CDP, isn't it." \par
In response Fred held out the letter for a second, nodded, and turned around.  The elders filed into the church, leaving Paul and Jeannie outside.\par
"Well, I guess we are going to eat a lot of pickles."\par
"What's going on?" Joyce Dunbar and Roy rounded the corner and saw them.\par
"The CDP."\par
"Well, we were already kicked out.  Now, here,too, I suppose."\b\par
\b0  \par
They decided to have services right there on the property.  There were twenty people who attended that first, outdoors service, some of whom has been attending elsewhere at a sort of long drive.  The worship team and Paul stood in a circle before the service and held hands.  They came to silence and bowed their heads. Paul looked around at Ian, the lead vocalist and guitar, and Sarah, backup singer and keyboard, and Arthur his apprentice carpenter on bass guitar,  and Mark on drums.  They had had one practice, that morning, after returning from Nicholls.  All were now life-long Eppers, now ex-Eppers.  Ian had come here already expelled. \par
"Let us pray," Paul said, and again there was that sense of resistance, like when he had said grace for the first time.  He felt ill, nauseous even.  He gripped the podium and looked at the ground.  Was he dizzy?\par
"There is something evil here," Ian, the worship leader and lead guitarist, said.  Paul had already come to appreciate his discernment in his choice of worship team members.\par
"Satan, get out of here in the name of Jesus," Paul commanded, and whatever it was was no longer felt.  \par
"The angel of the Lord encamps around those who fear Him, and he rescues them," Sarah said. \par
"Psalm 34:7" someone added.  Paul wondered if this was what they meant by the gift of prophecy.  Everyone present was ex-Epper, all of whom had been cast out because they believed God acted in these 'spectacular' gifts today.  It didn't seem all that spectacular.\par
"Resist the devil, and he will flee from you."\par
"Greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world."  \par
"Lord, send your angels to protect us, for we fear your Great and Powerful Name."\par
"Who is like you, O Lord? Who can resist your power?"\par
 More quotes and paraphrases followed, like a rainstorm. Paul hadn't thought about some of them applying to spiritual warfare until they were spoken. This was a new experience for him. Probably for all of them.  Some of them had committed the crime of attending a non-Epper charismatic service, which was probably where they had gotten some of these practices.  This was probably the first all-Epper service in many years that was open to all the gifts of the Holy Spirit. Paul was not going to stand in God's way.  As Jake said, neither choke the Ghost or shove the Dove.  Walk with Him, wherever He would take you.  Paul wished Jake was present, but Jake was off teaching somewhere.  He had heard that "things happened" in Jake's services, and Paul wondered what it was like to be actually at one.  Now, today, he would be in charge of one. \par
"Bind us tightly to you, Lord, let us hold onto you with all our hearts and minds and strength and souls."\par
"Ravish us with Your love, O Lord Jesus. We hunger and thirst for you as a deer pants for living water."\par
"Great is Your Name, O Lord, and you are worthy to be praised, Lord Jesus," someone else added.  More praises followed.  They were all excited to lead the people into the presence of the Lord.  This would not be grim, dutiful Epper worship but something Paul had not experienced before.  It was like there was electricity in the air, and Paul felt more alive and aware of things around him than he ever had before.  It was like God was right there, not just in an intellectual assent sort of way but in a real way he had never experienced before.\par
That sense of things being more-than-real continued throughout that service.  Paul looked back later with delight at that first service, although later services were, as they say, more anointed and more spectacular things happened, Jesus showed up at that service, and that was all he would say later about it.  It was the most important thing.\par
Jake called. He'd heard they were holding services there now.  He asked how it had gone, and Paul's one word answer was, "Fire!"  Jake said he understood.\par
======\par

\pard\cf3\f1\lang1033\par
\par
\par
\par
Jake as their pastor had to evaluate this against Scripture, nudging him towards the edges of what the Eppers would allow regarding the gifts of the Holy Spirit. Independent of this, he was considering this question in the contect of pastoral experience and seeing God answer prayers for healing.  Gladys Sykes, a newcomer, prayed for healing of a tumor. She had not been taught yet that "We don't do that", and was healed visibly:  it  shrank as Jake laid hands on her as the both experienced a sensation of sudden heat, quite out of Jake's experience. Jake asked her to keep it quiet.\par
\par
Instead she had this incident was written up in the \i Epper Epistle\i0 , and as a result Jake  was charged with heresy after a short investigation by the Committee on Doctrinal Purity, and then removed from his pastorate in 1976.  In hopes of repentence, and due to his prominence and clout,  they did not laicize him. \par
 \par
De le Grandes were involved in the Nicholls church until then.  At the time Jake's road ministry was flourishing and his books were commercially successful.  Paul hunted but game was scarce: the land could not support very many people.  He worked in construction for years both in Nicholls and farther away part-time, both for contractors and for himself, but if there was something on the property he preferred to do it himself for many years after. Jake opened up his property to exiled Eppers who had become victims of the CDP.  He had no expectations that anyone would come. Paul and Jeannie hardscrabbled a garden. They attended the Clinton church until services started on the property.\par
\par
\lang9 On the road Jake inadvertantly "cast vision" for a refuge city, including talking about the tornado as sometimes you just don't know God's will - he suspected more people had prayed the old farmhouse would be taken and the buildings spared, but the reverse happened. Sometimes you don't know what God has in mind.  \par
\par
Joyce Dunbar and family were among the first to arrive. On her first night on the campus she had a terrible dream.  She woke up suddenly, covered in sweat, rebuking Satan.  She never had one like it again.  What was in it? She could never remember, and did not want to remember it.\par
\par
\lang1033 Paul put a safety fence around the old barn, farmhouse and outbuildings. The soil was so rocky the septic field did not work, so he dug a lagoon big enough for his wife and himself. He built a low-walled 100' by 100' berry garden that mainly attracted deer. They ate the deer.  Over the years they added soil and the garden became fertile. Paulbrought in dirt  after he found the mounds unusable.  They worked on expanding the garden every year. \par
\par
Paul built the stable, as Jake wanted to try running horses on the land. The stony ground was a concern.\par
\par
\cf2\par
\par
\par
\cf3\par
\par
Paul, more comfortable doing carpentry work alone than anything else, also had no experience that would help him - only the seminary training, which was heavy on theology and light on management skills.  But he was on site and Jake vaguely indicated he was the man on site.  So he was looked to for leadership.  He realized his own limits and allowed self-organization to predominate.  God gave the place people with the right gifts for the work needed doing.  People with expertise applied that expertise to the needs, and people were naturally drawn to what they were good at.  But there was no planning, no overall plan, no focus, no mission statement, nothing of that sort.  Yet Paul would preach exegetically, laboriously, interminably in a dull dry voice from the Greek text, identifying each word by its grammatical parts, cognates and opposites, and God would show up with signs and wonders, and there was great joy and a sense of the anointing and presence of God.  Paul never credited it to himself. He also gave amazing counsel, but often you would have to go find him and talk to him with his hammer in his hand.  \par
\par
The first house was turned into a medical center.  Church was conducted in another house with multiple services, or outside if the weather was decent.  \par
\f0\lang9  \cf2\f1\lang1033\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f0\lang9\par
}
 