{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f2\fnil Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green77\blue187;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\f0\fs22\lang1033 "Where are you from, stranger?" the question in Koine from directly behind him made Matt smile and turn. The speaker was dresses as he was, with the short beard and otherwise shaven face of a German Epper.  They were of the same age.\par
\par
"Nerbasker," Matt replied,"I walked."\par
\par
"Nai," the first speaker replied. "I am from Florida." \par
\par
Matt checked to see if the line was moving.  It wasn't.  Ahead of him was a Russian Epper family, all in black, papa at the front, mama at the rear, a row of steadily shorter heads between them, the children silent and patient, the papa setting the example,the mama's fingers were twitching in impatience.  Matt had attempted small talk with the woman only to be shut down.  \par
\par
"Matt Holz," Matt said.\par
\par
"Shaphan Gruenenbacher," the first speaker replied.  He had pain in his eyes.\par
\par
"I'm exiled," Matt said,"Kicked out by the good old CDC."\par
\par
"Me, too," Shaphan replied, that pain receding a little,"they seem to be pushing a very utilitarian, forknowledge version of predestination these days."\par
\par
"I was removed for stating that the age of miracles has not ceased."\par
\par
"Really."\par
\par
"Yes."\par
\par
Shaphan considered this. "I suppose we all have to broaden our horizons. If you are a Christian you are still my brother. Perhaps some day we can come into agreement."\par
\par
Matt smiled.  They shook hands,"I think there are a lot of people here who ran afoul of the CDC for all sorts of reasons.  We need not do unto others what they did to us."\par
\par
"On that I quite agree. Line's moving."  So it was.  The Russian family had moved up, so Matt and Shaphan moved as well.  Behind them was a German Epper family, but the papa and mama headed the little group that was bunched up behind their parents, a group that was incessantly whispering to each other and to the parents. \par
\par
"The line is long."\par
\par
"The CDC has been very busy. What's that?"  Mark pointed to smoke rising from a point about a mile to the southeast.\par
\par
"They call that Tophet.  That's the area where trash is burned and waste dumped. I had the same question a little while ago."\par
\par
"Aah.  Good name. But I am surprised Eppers would call such attention to ourselves."\par
\par
"Not all here are the Hidden People.  Not all seek hiddenness.  Some are willing to live in secular towns.  And this place, anyway, is not hidden.  So that people can find it."\par
\par
 So what are your plans?"\par
\par
"I'm hoping to find enough of us exiled Eppers to form a settlement. Then off we go."\par
\par
"Sounds good. Maybe get back some of what we lost."\par
\par
"Much can never be recovered."\par
\par
"No."  Each thought of his parents, friends, brothers and sisters, forever cut off due to the exile.   \f1\lang9\par
\f0\lang1033  \par
\par
\par
Evan looked out the door past the line and gave a low whistle. \par
\par
"It's been like that all day," Edna said from behind the desk. \par
\par
"All month.  It seems just about everyone the CDC kicks out comes here."\par
\par
"Yeah. A torrent. Amazing that there are any Eppers left."\par
\par
The young American girl next to him recoiled and said, "I'm no Epper.  I'm an American. Never been an Epper."  Even nodded - she could not have been more than sixteen, with her long straight hair and bell-bottoms. "Do your parents know you are here?" he asked her.\par
\par
"Like they care.  What business is it of yours?"\par
\par
"Well, this is the office.  We screen people for entry."\par
\par
"Bummer," she said, and left the line, disappearing into the crowd. Someone had estimated the crowd at over 6,000.  No one wanted to know exactly by committing the presumption of David, so the exact number was not known.  Not everyone stopped by the office when they came, and hardly anyone let them know when they were leaving. There was the plate count from the dining halls, if you really wanted to know, but no one did, and if you asked you might get rebuked for your presumption of David. So the exact number of people on the property was unknown.  \par
\par
Evan looked out at the line.   He knew from experience that many were Eppers, but others were mixed in.  Eppers who had been convicted of "charismatic impulses" were there, but but others from every background, purpose and interest, not all of which purposes were good, came. People looked for a home after being exiled from their own settlements, or looked for a Holy Ghost revival, a good time, or a refuge city, whatever that meant. \par
\par
His shift was starting.  The woman behind the desk smiled wearily and made room for him to sit down.  Evan looked up at his first of the shift. "How can I help you?" he said pleasantly. \par
\par
\par
\par
In 1976 the arrivals had become a torrent.  Many exiled Eppers - and the Committee on Doctrinal Purity was very busy purifying the Eppers of every possible heresy, especially the popular charismatic movement - arrived, Six thousand  (it could have been anywhere between five to ten thousand and it fluctuated) people arrived.  Everyone was on the Midbar in a close-set tent city with parking on the east side, but Eppers formed settlements and departed, some settling elsewhere on the Ranch. The Midbar was the plantless hard-packed plain, a rectangle that had been the site of the Prisoner of War Camp during World War Two. \par
\par
1977 saw a huge influx of Jesus People as it became known as the Haight-Ashbury of the Midwest.  From April to December of that year many young people came seeking God in the Wilderness, and Paul was called Guru Paul.  The crash of hippie culture against Epper culture was phenomenal, as hippies attempted to mix with the somber, hard-working Eppers.  Some Jesus people stayed and joined Epper settlements, many others just passed through; the temporary people were all gone after the first snow.\par

\pard\li720\par

\pard The Ranch entered into wild, full charismatic mode, a Woodstock West, with little order. Jake was in charge, although almost never there, and Paul was looked to, if anyone was, as "Guru Paul" by the hippies and "Pastor Paul" by the Eppers, although he did not accept either title but bore with them.  But Paul did not lead. People at the Nicholls Church remembered Paul's demonstrated lack of giftedness to lead; why Jake chose him to lead was a mystery.  Paul was in full 'reliance on the Holy Spirit' in human passivity mode. \par
\par
Paul wanted quiet but instead unexpectedly hosted thousands. Paul was comfortable one on one but not much more than for a group of about six and his sights never were raised above his immediate project, never long-term, never with a consideration of what the impacts of a decision would be for the group: he didn't really grasp anything at a corporate level and preferred to avoid making decisions.   He 'depended on the Lord' for food to arrive, etc.  It worked. Paul had been praying for say bread and then bread would arrive for people.  Paul did not want to pull an Ishmael and presume his own leadership, but decided to wait on the Lord, and recognized John when he came, one of the first to.  \par
\par
\f1\lang9 Paul trusted the Messiah, the righteous Shoot of Jesse, to straighten out his messes.  Many criticize him.  He would calmly nod and agree.  He was not an administrator and things would be worse if he made a decision on something.  He would ask his accuser what they were going to do about it.  And they would, sometimes, finally say he needed to find an administrator, and he said that he prayed for one every day.  In God's timing, one would show up.  In the meantime, God was providentially providing for them.  \f0\lang1033\par
\par
God came through but it was a disaster from a human viewpoint, always on the point of total collapse and near-chaos, yet people self-organized and discovered their gifts in a way that would not be possible under hierarchial leadership.  But the self-organizing was surprisingly effective and responsive to needs. Paul regarded it as the church unleashed, citing Frank Tillapaugh's book "Unleashing the Church", just out in 1982 and widely read on the grounds. \par
\par
=======\par
\par
"No. There is a lot of leeway for a lot of things, but not this." The plans were spread out before Paul. \par
\par
"It would be a tourist attraction."\par
\par
"No."\par
\par
"We are not going to do animal sacrifices in the Temple."\par
\par
"Someone might.  There was the One Sacrifice, the Final One.  And there is only one Temple now, the One in heaven."\par
\par
"Isn't this the New Jerusalem?"\par
\par
"No."\par
\par
"God gave Brother Marvin," the speaker jerked his thumb at the same, who stood silently behind his sun glasses, expressionless in his beard under his pulled-down baseball cap,"God gave Brother Marvin the burden of the Lord on this."\par
\par
"I had a dream," began Brother Marvin, extending his arms out in what he must have thought was a prophetic posture. "This place will be lifted up, and God will draw all nations to it.  To do so, the Temple must be rebuilt."\par
\par
"Very interesting," said Paul. \par
\par
'In the time of Nehemiah they built the wall around the city," Brother Marvin intoned.  The seven or so men and women behind him nodded, as did the first speaker. "The LORD says, 'rebuild the ruined city.'"\par
\par
"There was never a city here."\par
\par
"The POW camp.  Instead of a Pee-Oh-Double-U Camp, it will be a POW Camp. Full of the POWER of the LORD."\par
\par
"Amen," murmered his choir.\par
\par
"If we put every hand to the task, we can build this city on rock," Marvin declaimed.\par
\par
"Is that so? Every hand?"  Marvin nodded.\par
\par
"How will we eat while everyone is working on your reproduction of the city of Jerusalem?"\par
\par
"It does not belong to me," Marvin modestly admitted,"for the vision is from the LORD."\par
\par
"Is it?"\par
\par
"It is attested by these witnesses," Marvin said, his arm waving towards his audience.\par
\par
"Well, this is a massive undertaking.  Who would direct the work?"\par
\par
Marvin looked down modestly.  The first speaker said,"Marvin is our Moses, to bring us into the promised land."\par
 \par
"For just compensation, as the LORD declares,"  Marvin said modestly.\par
\par
"Really,"  Paul said,"And I suppose you are the one God will tell, and we should all just accept it?"\par
\par
"When they challenged Moses, what happened? Did not the sons of Korah along with Dathan and Abiram perish?  When Pharoah opposed him, he died," Marvin said, with a warning look at Paul.  His choir looked worried. \par
\par
Paul shrugged. "And how would we eat?"\par
\par
"Manna," Marvin said firmly. "God will provide manna."\par
\par
"Really," Paul said.  He had never heard of such a thing.  This Marvin could not be twenty years old, and his friends were younger.\par
\par
The choir nodded their affirmation.\par
\par
"When was this dream?"\par
\par
"Three nights ago," Marvin said.  The choir looked startled. "I thought you said it was two nights ago." This was a teenage girl with long straight hair and big round glasses. Debbie something.  Paul had talked to her once before. \par
\par
"I said that yesterday. Yesterday was two nights ago."\par
\par
"No, you said that not half an a hour ago."  Debbie replied. \par
\par
"Debbie's right, several people in the chorus agreed.\par
\par
Marvin flushed. "Do not argue with the prophet!" he said,"I dream what the LORD says, and then I speak it.  I have special favor."\par
\par
"That's another thing, Marvin.  You said you were walking along and God told you this. Now was it in a dream or did you hear a voice?"  The boy who had first spoken was looking nervous.\par
\par
"That's it, Marvin. I'm out of this," he said, and nodded to Paul,"Sir," and left. A minute later it was Paul and Marvin alone.\par
\par
"Looks like your followers have left," Paul said.\par
\par
"Jesus was all alone, too.  All his disciples fled."\par
\par
"You really think you should be comparing yourself to Him?"\par
\par
Marvin's face turned red. "No," he said, looking at Paul.   \par
\par
"When you are ready, come back and we can talk about this," he said to the retreating back.    \par
\par
"Got it," came Marvin's voice.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
With the words from Jeremiah 16:14, "therefore will I cast you forth out of this land into the land that ye have not known, neither ye nor your fathers; and there shall ye serve other gods day and night; for I will shew you no favour.", Bishop A. Keith Berg of Ohio  had been declared a heretic and exiled from the denomination, from his settlement, stripped of office and laicized.  He had nowhere to go until he remembered that Jake Profim had established a place out west, and so he and his family arrived after the most painful time of his life. \par
\par
He had put all that behind him, forgetting it to press on into what God had for him now when he arrived.  Paul warned him to pray before going to sleep, particularly on his first night.  Nonetheless that night he had a powerful dream of standing on the lip of a deep, fire-filled pit, out of which came large, unclean frogs, lamentations and cries of despair, and then the rock he was standing on slipped, and he woke, with muscle jerks. \par
\par
Keith Berg saw that decisions were needed and also he found himself doing the actual pastoral work, which he recognized Paul was not capable.  In his view Paul was happy not deciding anything until it was almost too late and letting things happen as much as possible without making decisions "things work themselves out".  Keith Berg deferred to Paul as a result of a rather vague conversation with Jake. Keith Berg found himself, a bishop of many years experience, deferring to a pastor with less than two weeks experience whom he himself would have instantly removed had he had a choice. Inwardly he struggled with doubts: he himself was much more proactive and choleric than the thoroughly passive and phlegmatic-sanguine Paul, who was perfectly happy with how things were going as "all things are in God's hands and timing." Is there such a thing as being too content? \par
\par
"Society cannot function without form and motivation" - F.A. Schaeffer.  "This society has neither," Keith Berg observed, first to Paul and then to Jake. Neither had ever been exposed to Edelmann's "Theory of Society" where Edelmann had laid out how a proper Epper society should function.  "Theory of Society" was seldom heard of until being considered for an episcopal chair, and Edelmann had written in a difficult Latin dialect and was found of ate scholastic language: the work had never been translated, if that was even possible,  but surveyed all attempts Edelmann knew of at society structures, ancient up until his own time in the early 1700s.  Edelmann was not always correct, but his insights were always worth considering.  Keith Berg found himself reading and re-reading Edelmann.  Ivan Ivanovich Bishop Smirnov on Edelmann: "Lycurgus' genius was not as stated by the Spartans with their emphasis on austerity, arms and equality, but raither in the establishment of that novel invention, the Senate as a counterweight between a pure democracy and a pure monarchy." Edelmann never saw the American Constitution, and there was speculation as to what he would have thought.  Keith Berg wished he had either Edelmann himself or Smirnov or van Dyke, his two commentators who were often read instead, although neither was available in English, here. Keith Berg did not wish to create a society but rather establish one, one that ran, instead of what he saw as the present chaos. He knew his limits and the constraints both Jake and Paul put him under.\par
\par
Keith Berg considered his condemnation and exile not his own fault, but a trend among the Eppers that has gone on for generations.  They had gone off the Biblical standard. It was ironic that he decided this in a place that was separatist as what he found himself in. How could this place continue to be separate and still be the light to the world? What sins were they still committing? What errors were they holding to? He kept a journal of his thoughts, especially the ones he felt he could share with no one but God, written in a  an archaic Epper-Dutch dialect, one van Dyke would have used.  He had been exiled, yes, and he was standing on his integrity, without which he was nothing.  But what was it that he was still doing that was sin? He prayed for revelation and repentence, not only for himself but for all those who came. How were they justifying their sin by claiming it to be the will of God, both sinning and take it to that arrogant step of claiming God was leading them into sin? God tempts no one, he knew, and there seemed to be a fog, a lack of clarity, an indeterminedness about all this. \par
\par
Keith Berg struggled with a vulnerability: he was really accountable to no one on earth. He missed the familar Epper structure of a presbytery, churches, and entire denomination. Neither Paul nor Jake saw any need for any structure.  Berg tried to get either one as an accountability partner, but neither was interested.  Nor did he have any clout with which to enforce discipline. Only persuasion, which he had, and a moral authority, which some people were aware of but others were blind to.  He was tempted to leave, but he had nowhere to go and he felt some responsibility for these people who need shepherding. He was tempted to build the ideal Epper society, but that was what the denomination's purpose, and "look what is happening with the CDP". He did not want to create another one. \par
\par
He also struggled with his laicization.  Could a bishop really be laicized, or did he continue in the office until death regardless of recognition?  Eppers had never addressed the question, because it simply never had come up.  He was still a pastor and a bishop by calling, training and gifting, even if not by recognition.  He had not changed.  They had removed a paper title.  That was all, but sometimes he wondered.  Paul was still a pastor, even though he didn't act like it.  Keith did, although he was no longer officially recognized as such.  What a strange new world they found themselves in!\par
\par
Paul and Jake wanted a society of healthy relationships, reflecting redemption, with organization following, not a dead structure everyone must fit into.  Keith was more comfortable with familiar, tried-and-true structures.  Paul wanted to see what would organically grow here rather than be iimposed in a top-down manner. Keith was willing to work with this, but also wanted a lot more in the way of structure. Neither Paul nor Jake were familiar with Edelmann - they looked with suspicion on documents that had guided the Eppers, given the circumstances.  They needed divine, not human wisdom; what did Edelmann offer there?  Keith did not know how to reply to that. \par
\par
Some took Sabbath as a day of rest and were offended when others did not. Paul regarded the controversy in the light of Romans 14, but one side held it as a legalistic Pharisaic distinction, and the other that they were antinomian. Keith's sermon series on freedom of conscience helped some. They had to accept different ways of doing things without condemning those who disagreed with them.  As Eppers typically lived in settlements where there was no disagreement, this was a new thing. Prophetic words condemning Sabbath breaking and condemning legalism were stopped - they had begun to appear.  \par
\par
Keith looked at the line - there were over twenty in line with aches and pains; they held medical clinic every morning at ten, only there were no doctors or nurses.  So he prayed for people.  \par
\par
The mother explained that her son had these bumps.  Keith knew they were lymph nodes, and the child either had a systemic infection or cancer.  The boy looked at him uncertainly. Keith reached out and put his finger on the first one the mother had showed him, and sighed.  "Jesus," he said, looking up.  Under his finger the lump disappeared.\par
\par
"Any more?"  The boy felt around. "There were some. I can't find them.\par
\par
"Thank you. Thank you, thank you!" the mother said,"we were so frightened."\par
\par
"Thank God who cares for you, not me. I am only his servant, ma'am."  He removed her hugging arms gently. "There are people waiting, as you waited," he told her, and she took her son and left.\par
\par
Headaches, toothaches, sprains, burns, fevers, coughs, colds, the whole range of human miseries: he prayed for them and God in His mercy healed all of them. He could take no credit for any of it, and had a sense of wonder about it, which was strange, because the people who were healed just took it as a manner of course that if they asked him to pray, they would be healed, nothing exciting or exceptional about it.  He wished the CDC could see this, a vindication of the position he had taken, a vindication of his conviction that God still heals today.  And here it was, under his own hands.  God had said to him - there was no other way he could explain it - to pray for healing from ten to eleven in the morning, and only then.  So he did.  \par
\par
Sometimes he had doubts about this.  Keiith witnessed miracles, some spectacular but none with real medical documentation, and he wondered if God was truly present, as Epper thought at the time was that God was so hidden as to be almost absent in action or appearance. How could this really be a day of visitation? Why would God reveal Himself here and now? The Hidden God revealing Himself via miracles, healing, tongues and prophecies?  God remains hidden and reveals Himself at the same time, the chief means that eclipses all others being the life of Christ, the crucifixion, death and resurrection and ascension.  These 'charismatic revelations' are radiation of that same life, when true.  God Himself reveals Himself only indirectly: He is not seen but His actions are observed; as nature declares His glory, so do these things.  So Keith thought. The provision was clearly supernatural.  They never went hungry or unclothed or without shelter.  Keith Berg was humble enough to yield to Paul without rancor. \par
\par
Signs and wonders, prophecies, spiritual songs, etc. were everywhere. Some people arrived who were clearly out of order.  They tended to get sent back to where they came from by Keith Berg, who was embarrassed internally at what he thought was bluffing, as he actually had no authority to do anything.  Paul never wanted to exile anyone but have a big tent without exception.  They simply never discussed the fact that Keith Berg was exiling people.  It worked better that way. He would discuss a problem case with Paul and Jake, if he could, and get a vague consensus that so-and-so must be dealt with. \par
\par
After a long wait Mark Adams was finally in front of a desk in the trailer. Why was he here? The music. Woodstock West.  She blinked and continued here list of questions: there had been a long line ahead of him and one behind him, and she did not have much time.  He wondered if she even heard his answers.  He had to agree to wear boots. Okay. Pitch in where he could. Okay. Be willing to be covered with the blood of Jesus in prayer. What? She repeated it, and he said okay.  A few more questions, and he was in.  He was told where to go to get boots and get assigned a tent. So he was done there.  Be willing to be covered with the blood of Jesus? He had no idea what that meant.\par
\par
That night  he sleep-walked and woke up at the top of the grade down into Snake Woods.  He said he had taken a step into nothing, with the sense of falling instantly into eternal torment and fire, with people screaming all arond him as he bobbed up and down in a lake of fire, gasping the hot air when he surfaced but immediately being pulled under. "It seemed so real.  There could be such a place.  If I die I don't know that I won't wind up there. What must I do to be saved?" he asked Keith, who had the answer. He wondered if Mark was mocking him, but he led Mark to Christ.  Keith watched him to see if there was Christian fruit - there was: he began attending Bible study and left behind some of the questionable people he had been hanging around with. \par
\par
Alice Crowley had a similar experience, but she was woken by a voice before she got to the edge of the slope down. "Go no further this way; turn your life around." It was an authoritative voice, a loving voice, a powerful voice, and she woke and looked around but was alone.  She went back to the settlement and talked to Jeannie, who led her to the Lord. \par
\par
Tim Smirnoff said he did not dream, or did not remember his dream.  But he found himself awake in the middle of the night on the edge of that slope, and he said he had just heard a voice say, "Verily you come to me." Then he woke up, staggered back, and ran back to the camp, terrified. \par
\par
Many people had troubling dreams, nightmares, particularly on first arriving: some were of hell, some were of an immense secret awaiting them in Snake Woods that would lead them to extreme wealth.  Sometimes sleepwalkers were found wandering around the old farmstead.  They typically said that they were dreaming, looking for something, but what it was or where it was, they did not remember.\par
\par
\par
Poltergeists moved things when no one was around. In particular clothing would be knocked to the floor, cots and  lanterns overturned and the fuel-oil spilling, and books were found open, face down on the floor, but never a Bible. It particularly affected people on the south side of the camp without Bibles.  Many of the non-Christians left after scary dreams, these incidents, or other seemingly supernatural unpleasantness. Some moved to the north side of the camp.   \par
\par
Economically, there were wild swings, but then no one was keeping track of offerings, income or expenditures: Paul's view was that the Lord Will Provide. He did, but it was a scramble for people like Jeannie, a planner at heart and organizer of the meals.  They did not starve or go without shelter or medical care or clothing, but they came close. They kept the money in a pile in the stable, and sometimes it was down to a few pennies, more than once empty for weeks at a time. Later the pile was restarted in the Hanger. The thought of keeping money under the same roof he slept under was repugnant to Paul, who influenced others. \par
\par
\par
\lang9 Wild-haired, unwashed, eating insects, grubs and herbs off the land, the Elijah Company   arrived, self-styled prophets. The old POW camp evoked Jeremiah 9:11 to them: they saw Jerusalem and a Levitical refuge city, seizing on 'the refuge city' and allowing it to dominate their vision of what the place was.  Later "the ancient wells are reopened" - the old POW camp wells.   They developed the annoying habit of interpreting everything that happened as a manifestation of Biblical prophecy. They also prophesied that this was where Christ will return and be seen first. They began putting on white robes and assembling at dawn on the hilltop across the quarry from the old camp. That is the spot, they said, and they went through a morning ritual of putting their full armor on for spiritual warfare: this caught on and was popular, particularly among formerly suburban charismatic women.   The Company spent much of their time in far corners of the property, sleeping under the stars and even out in the rain and snow.  Many found them attractive but did not join in some of their more extreme ascetic practices; some joined them but quit when they found they lacked the endurance to sleep outside in all weathers on insects and field-herbs. Where they came from is still unknown. They were difficult to have a conversation with, as all they talked about was the Lord. Or demons. They said the whole property was infested, particularly around Snake Woods, but they cast out demons everywhere as they saw demons everywhere they went. They saw Satan as the Lord of earth and the church as God's invasion force to take back demonically occupied land. Their favorite verses were such as 1 John 3:8 'The Son of God appeared for this: that He might destroy the works of the devil.' And Eph 6:12 'For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms.' Others retorted that the battle-field was the human heart, not the physical land, and they were then accused of platonism. They regarded everyone outside their ranks as spiritually compromised, sold out to the world and the devil and the flesh. They took Jesus' command in Luke 9 literally:"When Jesus had called the Twelve together, he gave them power and authority to drive out all demons and to cure diseases, 2 and he sent them out to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal the sick. 3 He told them: \f2\ldblquote\f0 Take nothing for the journey\f2\emdash no staff, no bag, no bread, no money, no extra shirt. 4 Whatever house you enter, stay there until you leave that town. 5 If people do not welcome you, leave their town and shake the dust off your feet as a testimony against them.\rdblquote  \f0\lang1033  They did drive out demons and heal, and they said the reason other Christians were weak was because they failed the apostolic command. They also held to Luke 10:1-12.  Their number was somewhere between forty and one hundred - they were scattered in small bands and did not use their own names, and sometimes changed names, so they were impossible to count.  They never stayed long in one place.  One band would come, and then another, and the first would leave. Nicholls looked on them as unwelcome beggars. \par
\lang9\par
In sharp opposition to them were the Am Dabar, the Prophetic People, who prophesied against the sin in the camp and said the place would be destroyed by fire and sword.  When someone died by getting too close to Snake Woods, they added by snakes, as with Israel in the desert.  They called for holiness, but rejected fasting as carnal.  They held all-night prayer meetings every night, Scripture readings all night, and rejected much of the charismatic music and worship in the camp as carnal as well.  When the Elijah Company went out to await the Lord, they would not make eye contact with Am Dabar people: they regarded each other as full of the devil, spiritually compromised and sold out to the devil.  That was not the attitude of their leaders as much as their followers.  Keith Berg attempted to reconcile them with each other, but each group said the other would have to give up some of their positions, which they would not do.  Am Dabar regarded the Elijah Company as being formally heretical, and the Elijah Company regared Am Dabar as \i malakos\i0 , spiritually soft. The inference of them being the passive partners in homosexual acts, with which the word was typically associated, was not missed.   \par
\par
On one occaision there was agreement between them.  Paul de le Grande, of all people, called for a Jericho walk around Snake Woods, binding the enemy and telling him to be quiet. Several thousand people marched around Snake Woods once a day for six days in silent prayer, accompanied by the seven shofars that had been found, and on the seventh day they marched seven times around it, and then those who had trumpets and shofars blew them, with the drumming of drums and the clashing of cymbals and everyone gave "a mighty shout".  Many of the Elijah Company joined with Am Dabar in that Jericho Walk around Snake Woods.  After that the nightmares, sleepwalking and poltergeists stopped.  Some people still had nightmares on occaision, but of a more natural kind.\par

\pard\li720\par

\pard\lang1033 Joyce Dunbar found every dumped couch, washer, dryer, etc., in Nicholls and surrounding counties and people hauled it to the Ranch, where some were fixed, some cannibalized, and some sit waiting for their day.  She also dug through the old quarry and the piles of debris. \cf1  \cf0 They were broke, but it did not bother them; they sold what they could as scrap because they were impoverished, they reused some of the debris, whatever they could: money from scrap sales went to hay, to food, to cow manure for planting gardens  Is someone on site using it, and for what, they would ask themselves.  Broken glass became windows, vases, but that took fuel or electricity, both expensive.  Likewise melting copper, dealing with scrap machine steel and parts.  Solar furnaces were constructed. They went beyond the mindset: not a nail was to be  wasted.  Everything was regarded as a gift from God and a resource.  Old washers and refrigerators that were abandoned were brought back to life.  Some things were simply set aside. Joyce had acres of rocky ground with junk on it. She even built her own debris pile.  Some people objected to all the junk strewn over the land. The Lord led her to hangers at Whiteman Air Force Base that she was allowed to take. After they were re-built on the land in a nice row at the south edge of the Midbar, material was moved out of the weather into one of the hangers. One also was used to house the stage for worship: the crowd spilled out the doors onto the ground outside.  \par
\par
Aaron Boom built the first motor-buggy using scrap pulled out of the debris-piles, and some of what Joyce brought, including an old washing machine engine.  It was used to haul some of the heavier junk.  Originally it had a sail, but later a washing machine motor and battery were added.  The first one was low-slung, good only on level ground and slow. Later modifications included solar cells, higher speed and carriages with the larger wheels, and greater capacity and diversity in design. Later motor-buggies were used for passenger travel, general freight and to move rock in and from the quarry.\par

\pard\li720\par

\pard Paul used to say, "You can foolishly hold onto pride, like an ill-gottten treasure, or you can embrace humility, forsaking holding on to earthly treasure and gaining a heavenly one." The Eppers will take anything and eventually find a use for it.  They took  stewardship very seriously and depravation is in their history. Whether people or things, they have always taken what others do not want and turned it into something of great value. They prefer to buy means of production, such as a natural gas welder, rather than an end product, and make what they want. \par

\pard\li720\par

\pard Paul was not one of the 12 and put himself in the background. He had devoted himself mainly to reflection and prayer and was active in the prayer ministry, although not in leadership. People sought his counsel; others wondered why anyone would seek his counsell after his performance at the Nicholls church.  \par
\par
Earl Mirren struggled as a wannabe prophet, getting it right but at times swamped by the Elijah Company, Am Dabar and other, more outspoken and audacious figures. Joyce Dunbar told him to follow Christ and not to worry about titles. \par
\par
Matthew Erlanger, called Uhr as a pun because "even a stopped clock is right twice a day", interpreted everything that happened as God's judgement and condemnation. Efforts to get God's grace through to him were fruitless.  He and Am Dabar were in agreement, although Uhr never went as far as they did.  But he was more frequent.\par
\par
Others also prophesied but more seldom. \par
\par
New Hope was appalled at some of the goings-on.  Their relationship with the rest of the Ranch became tenuous.  They also absorbed enough ex-Eppers to form a new settlement adjacent, New Luebeck. Both supplied food to the main effort in exchange for some manpower when needed, and cash.  To this day both run cattle and plant soybeans; New Hope is more beef cattle and New Luebeck dairy.  They were quickly self-supporting. \par
\par
Stockwood, a tattooed, bearded, shaven-head motorcyle riding Baptist evangelist worked the crowds, seeking to save the lost and rescue people from the error of Pentecostalism.  He was actually a very gentle person, but his tracts wound up used for everything from toilet paper to fire starters.  When he learned that, he stopped passing out tracts.  But he would get into long conversations about Tozer's \i Pursuit of God\i0 , Chesterton and Francis Schaeffer.  He brought many to Christ who were there for the drugs and sex. \par
\par
\par
People also found treasure strangely attractive.  They heard the stories of the Blythewood gang, the Mueller treasure, the gold convoy, even Blackbeard was reputed to have buried his treasure here, and even the Inca. How did these absurd stories start, Keith wondered.  People realized there was a danger in focusing on treasure instead of God, and with an effort people rejected the attractions of materialism, as Eppers always had, but with an emphatic NO in this particular place. The treasure was 'out there' but of no benefit, instead great danger.  It was identified with Snake Woods: lethally attractive, unknown, mysterious.  If there was treasure there it was not worth the risk. \par
   \par
"We are all forced to make choices at times; at other times we choose without realizing we have chosen. We choose toward what we really value.  Even in the face of God revealing Himself via nature, we still seek treasure elsewhere. But we are also unable to escape the choices of organizations we are a part of and their leadership. Our choices, and the choices of our leaders, build both those organizations and our leaders, and change us."\par
\par
\par
Keith Berg was perturbed at the immorality going on - a place for Christians to gather as a refuge was turning into a drug-infested orgy where anything went, and Paul was not at all concerned, if he noticed it.  "How long before it is clean again" (Jeremiah 13:27). He heard the heart of Father God longing for the holiness of His people. While pondering this, he heard of a crowd laughingly stripping off the skirt of a young woman and pointing to her genital warts. These things were not to be - Keith Berg was shocked to hear Paul says it was the clear hand of God operating in justice, but Keith Berg was interested in things being done in decency and order.  Keith Berg replied that we cannot stand by and do nothing. What can we do? Paul asked.  The situation was almost out of control and people were upset.  If they do nothing, the godly will leave and they will be left with the ungodly.  Keith Berg explained the situation to Jake, who told him to do what he had to do. Keith Berg asked for the assistance of the stone masons to back him up, and about forty people were asked to leave, some of whom threatened to stay anyway or sneak back in.  They were photographed.  From that point on there was a security presence, initially made of volunteers in shifts chosen from people that Keith Berg felt he could trust.  \par
\par
One day a group of people coalesced in one part of the camp around a statue they had made that they called Wisdom, around which they partied, dancing and drinking into an orgy.  Keith Berg came and demanded they stop. It also seemed that they were bowing down to it and directly prayers to it, which they denied and said it was just like a picture, it helped them focus on God, and others said they had, but it was in fun. They had started in fun, but some became serious about it. Keith called it blatant idolatry. They angrily challenged him, pointing out he was in no authority over them.  He appealed to Paul, who came and said he would decide and thought they should all get along, until he thought it over and made a decision.\par
\par
Keith Berg preached that Sunday on Exodus 32, drawing boos and jeers from those who had made the statue.  Others told them to be quiet and listen, but they walked out. the stone masons and others followed them and destroyed the statue, smashed the liquor bottles and scattered or burned the drugs they found, and the two groups fought each other.  The statue makers finally agreed not to make another one, and the other group agreed not to attack them.  But they called the first group to repent and stop the orgies, the drinking and the drugs.  Some demanded financial compensation for their losses. Some in the first group immediately left, others repented, others tried to steer something of a middle course, and the issue simmered. But no one ever built a statue again.  \par
\par
Keith Berg asked Paul what he thought of all this. He said he thought things had been worked out, and he did not need to say anything. \par
\par
A group of "prophets" received word that Jake was to return and rule over them as king and they were to submit to him.  He rejected this and asked Paul to deal with it.  Paul asked Keith to handle it.  How could they object to Jake's refusal, when they were wanting him to come and be king anyway?  Keith pointed out the contradiction, which somehow they did not see, but it eventually took the wind out of their sails. \par
\par
Elias Straedner, now-exiled ex-pastor of an Epper settlement, arrived.  He'd considered himself the well-beloved and respected pastor of a healthy Epper settlement, seventy years of age and thinking about stepping down, when the CDP went after him. No retirement. No pension.  Exile. He was very bitter, shockingly so.  He had been forced to come here because he had no other options, was angry at God, at the CDP, at the whole situation, at those who reported him whom he had thought were his friends but has come to see as Judases.  He would be the last person the CDP would go after, as he had been on it for 10 years himself and thought himself bulletproof. He was an old-line Epper pastor and expected to be addressed as Pastor.  He was bridled when Keith Berg told him not to do that, as that would be confusing to many.  Keith Berg was always aware he was in the assembly, as his glare and disapproving frown in a crowd of rejoicing people was evident.  \par
\par
In sermons Keith Berg addressed his concern about spiritual pride creeping in among some who seem to self-congratulate, as if they were the elite Christians and those who stayed Epper were at best half-awake or spiritually dead. He longed for them to be clean from spiritual pride and return to the ancient humility of the Eppers. Rampant pseudotheology based on popular authors engendered in him some sympathy for the Committee on Doctrinal Purity: this is what happens without checks.  He considered how to set up sufficient theological freedom so that it was not dead without allowing heresy to blossom. He spent time in prayer for structure.  In his view, Jake and Paul provided nothing that could be regarded as effective oversight.  Neither was ever a bishop: Keith Berg had been, and he was keenly aware of the need and the lack. Neither of the others was.  At the same time he had to address the antinomianism and lack of restraint present in some. It bothered him that he seemed to be coming off as the bad guy - and that Paul sometimes seemed to be allowing, or at least not ruling out, licentiousness. \par
\par
Paul thought their job was to love, and it was God's job to sanctify. Accordingly, there would always be a group of "sinners": a good thing, because they would be converted into Christlikeness.  Keith Berg agreed, but there were limits.  Was Keith Berg wise enough to set those limits? No, but they had been worked out among Eppers over centuries.  How did those work for you, Paul asked, but more gently than that. He of course had been exiled by those clinging to that working out. He had nothing more to say, and Paul said they had to revisit the whole subject, rethink it, and they did not have it clear yet. Better to err on the side of liberty than on the side of legalism, which seemed to be an Epper error. The Eppers had been happy for a long time without the CDP and they did not need to have one here. \par
\par
A  CDP-laicized Epper elder, Aaron Adams arrived, but his wife and children chose to stay with  Adams's former settlement. Keith Berg wanted pastoral help, but Paul did not want every pastor or elder who arrived to become a pastor or elder here, and Jake agreed: Jake would have to think that issue through, but he never did, and left things as they were.  Aaron Adams quietly accepted the fact that he was not to pastor and found employment in the quarry, although not in heavy lifting.  Years later Mrs. Adams and the kids came.  Aaron Adams had to forgive her and reconcile even though they had both moved in different directions. There had been reasons why she had stayed behind that were still there.  Aaron stopped his good female friendship that he suddenly found extremely inappropriate. He had to admit that he was never divorced, despite the separation, and he was about to fall into grave error when his wife arrived. \par
\par
Matthew Erlanger pointed out the confusion and lack of order as against the God Who thinks all things should be decently and in order. They were not.  He had no solutions, just criticism. He was painfully on the mark, and Paul thought it is rightfully an inspiration for prayer and seeking direction from God. It annoyed Keith Berg. \par
\par
Keith Berg had to address a man who continually prophesied gloom and doom and telling people they would die if they do not repent.  Prophecy was restricted to church services or in the presence of, for now, Paul or himself, and Keith Berg seems to be carrying the bulk of it.  No 'parking lot prophecies', please. No words one on one without someone else there for the sake of decency and order, and preferably himself. \par
\par
A loosely affiliated group of what came to be known derisively as the prosperity prophets, who never organized but just all said the same thing, declared that God would green up the land, there would be a world-wide wave of healing and supernatural works emanating from here, and Christ would return here first. This would be the new Zion, the new City of David, the new Jerusalem, and peace would go out from here like a river to all the nations.   Some of what they said seemed to have originated with the Elijah Company.  But it seemed like the idea that Jesus was to return here first rose from many different people.  Keith Berg wondered about it, and recalled that the Lord would appear everywhere at once, not in one place.  But that did not seem to slow it down. \tab  \par
\par
Due to the water shortage(s) they cut retention basins in the rock in choice places to catch rainwater. Keith Berg had to resolve the situation that the Honeybucket Brigade could not seem to learn that the basins were not where sewage was to be dumped. The rainwater needed to be purified anyway.  They dug sewage lagoons for sewage. Then was the first run-in with environmental agencies, as they got no permits initially and saw no need. Water percolating over rock worked like a trickling filter and even allowed soil to be caught in the algae.  Keith Berg got caught in the dispute between the regulatory agencies and the Honeybucket Brigade, as it was called, in charge of the sanitary sewers.  Originally they were name that because before there was any plumbing to the trailers, they would go trailer to trailer once a day and collect the waste. \par
\par
Keith Berg addressed a looming moral corruption among some who claimed to follow Christ.  Their antinomianism led to a shift where anything goes, even to the point that fleshly sins were not considered sins. Not everyone was capable of living to Epper standards, but that did not mean everything was allowable. Keith Berg had been preaching for holiness and against sin:  the group had become corrupt, maintaining an ostenatious and superficial asceticism even while, like medieval monks, going from door to door looking for money, prophesying unending wealth and peace over this New Jerusalem if people would only bless them. The pickings were few on the property, and they even tried this in Nicholls, which had little tolerance for beggars. Keith Berg consulted Paul and Jake.  Those who would not repent were exiled. \par
\par
The final straw was in the Sunday services: they sought to give prophetic words that would increase their own popularity and power.  Keith Berg told their leader Servant (they named themselves not by their given name, but by other things.  Morning Star, Endurance, Humility, Brook, Long Grass were some of the more well-known members) to stop.  They also seemed to have wanted to take control: they had a good deal of influence. Aaron Boom, among others, gave them a great deal of money.  \par
\par
One day Keith Berg realized no one has seen anyone of the Elijah Company for some time  They seem to have left and were never seen again.  Their influence remained chiefly in the People of Praise and the tradition of awaiting Christ at dawn on the hilltop across from the quarry.\par
\par
False prophetic types, led by a Karl Sallow (no known relationship to Roger Sallow, but he took advantage of the good name of Roger Sallow), prophesied of the glories of the New Jerusalem and immense wealth and health that God will bring about and that the drought will end very soon.  Along came David Wellbelove-Hatman, of another caliber.  He prophesied that the current drought was of the Lord and they needed to repent.  He also denounced the false prophecies as the imaginations of men's minds.  They accused him of creating dissension.  In return he accused them of lying, self-indulgence, and speaking the Lord's Name when He had not called, appointed or sent them.  They tried  to shut him up. At first Keith Berg tried to find middle ground, but there was none.  The prophetic ping-pong went on for several weeks, after which Paul and Keith Berg said  prophecies must be cleared with Keith Berg or Paul before being spoken in service and then written and approved, then read as written: nothing spontaneous.  Paul, however, in practice allowed ping pong, saying how else are we to judge prophecy unless we hear it? This was something Keith Berg had to live with patiently.  Threats were made against DW-H but he continued, even confronting his accusers bluntly.  Unknown assailants beat him up in his tent one night.  He continued to prophesy, adding woe to those who assaulted him in a heated confrontation between himself and these false prophets, whom he accused not just of delusion but of deliberate manufacture of false words, with the aid of the occult rather than heaing the voice of the Holy Spirit. "Are our dead bodies to be found slain in the fields," they mocked DW-H, "or are we to starve to death in the cities? What fields, the bare rock here? What city? These tents? When did the voice of prophecy pass from us to you?" He retorted that they are already in a land they did not know, and neither did they understand the times. If they did, they would have recognize the voice of the Lord.\par
\par
Keith Berg heard about the final encounter second hand: "We cannot accommodate false teaching or false prophecy", DW-H said.  They are leading people astray and promulgating falsehoods.  Who has the Holy Spirit, they demand, and he retorts that it is the one who is obedient to Him and not resisting Him or lying about him.  They are prophesying a false vision, even diviniation, vanity and the deceit of their own heart - if they do not know they are lying.  They demand he take it back but he will not.  He says if the Ranch does not repent they are in for more chaos, poverty, drought, even illness: the Biblical judgement is drought, sword, famine, pestilence; the peace here is superficial, a false peace, displeasing to the Lord. Since when is it wrong to call people to repentence?  When they do not need to, is the response.  He is upsetting people, he should leave if he will not be quiet.  God has told him otherwise.  Jesus offended many and he only offends when God has told him to. It is good that they are offended: the proper response is repentence, not a hardening of the heart and anger.  They angrily ended the discussion by walking out. \par
\par
That night DW-H was beaten so badly he needed to be taken via ambulance to a hospital. He was moved to a larger hospital in Harrisonville, as the Nicholls hospital was very small.  A moratorium was called on prophecy and tongues until things cooled down; angry denials that they had anything to do with it rise from those who had been prophesying health and wealth, and they had alibis.  The Sheriff investigated; it ended as a cold case because he did not find sufficient evidence and he has other, pressing investigations. He also suggested they do their own police work.  "From now on," he said,"You do your own police work.  This whole half of the county doesn't pay a cent in taxes and you are your own world anyway." \par
\par
Keith Berg visited DW-H in the hospital. He checked his understanding of the encounter with DW-H, who related that to doctors, to the sheriff, and now, for the third time, to Keith Berg, so maybe he was starting to remember it wrong, and he was tired. So instead of a line-by-line, Keith Berg stated that he had never seem him err and had heard no criticism of him that he regarded as valid, nonetheless he felt he must ask him if he had been impolitic, overly blunt, harsh.  He said what he need to say, he responded. Sometimes things need to be said a certain way to get across. For DW-H's personal safety and health Keith Berg advised him to not return to the Ranch. at a minimum at night. The beating left him with permanent injuries that would make living in the tent city very difficult. He hoped Keith Berg was not on the side of those prophesying falsely? No; this was his pastoral advice for DW-H.  DW-H conceded it would be impractical, but he was not afraid. He said he had been thinking about the verse that stated if they will not receive you in one city, go on to the next. DW-H was happy to have suffered for the Gospel. His family came and took him back home to Chicago. Keith Berg decided that information was confidential. On his return to the Ranch Keith Berg found a new sign up at the entrance: "I will give you lasting peace in this place." He identified it as from Jeremiah 14:13 and he asked Paul to take it down, which he did after some discussion. Normally it would not have been a problem, but in the present situation it was divisive, and Keith Berg knew why they had put it up. \par
\par
That finally and completely ended uncontrolled public prophecy.  Soon an Agnes Rummage came, with the same message of 'Repent', delivered to Paul and Keith Berg as prophecy was shut down. They permitted her to give it.  The health and wealth people were silent, and they slowly left. She was offered a bodyguard, but she declined. She would just as soon go see Jesus. She was here as long as He wanted her here, and nothing could stop Him, so no. She stayed one week.\par
\par
Keith attempted to dilineate between personal piety and corporate piety.  There is supposed to be a balance: we walk both individually with God and as a body of believers.  Both are necessary.  You cannot rely on the corporate life of the church to save you - personal belief is necessary, but neither can you rely on your own piety - your personal faith must be expressed in the body, if there are other Christians around. There are the first three commandments, but then the other seven. Up and out, not just one or the other.  \par
\par
\par
Simon Brot, exiled Epper, arrived.  He was guided by shterniggeit, Epper occult mysticism that had been condemned for over 350 years.  He was prohibited from spreading it on penalty of exile.  \par
 \par
\par
"Tell m'Lord Berg that Pastor Straedner has arrived, and desires to speak with him at his early convenience," the same said to Joseph, his man-servant and sometime amanuensis. Joseph had chosen to go into exile with his Pastor rather than enduring the suspicions that would have remained, had he stayed behind.  It had been difficult, and still was difficult. This Bishop Berg had been tried years before and exiled, and now Eppers had nowhere to go. Except here.  It was quite possible Pastor Straedner would encounter someone he had sent into exile during his time on the CDP.  It has been quite unmaginable that he himself would be tried and exiled, but now, here he was, in this Epper Gulag. That was his impression of the place.  This was where they sent criminally heretical Eppers.  It was a prison camp without guards.  How fitting that it had once been a prisoner of war camp. \par
\par
Pastor Straedner frowned at the office-trailer. It certainly did not fit the stature of a prince of a church, even in exile. It was a vacation trailer, the sort of camper you haul behind a truck.  The wheels had been replaced with concrete blocks. The trailer had a tarp stretched over it to form a canopy, under which there were two picnic tables.  But no one was in view.  He touched his waistcoat, now a plain black one, and sighed.  He had had an elaborate one, the Wonder of Berlin, with crosses in intricate patterns of silver and gold thread. But that was behind him.  He frowned at his pants-legs, still mud-free (there was remarkably little mud here, and a lot of rock passing for grass, to the shame of those dwelling here), and at his shoes, now slightly scuffed.  Joseph would have to restore the polish before he saw the Bishop. who was sure to take note. \par
\par
The Bishop had said he was available today, but that was a week ago, before the long drive, and schedules change and they had been out of contact.  Missouri. Misery. What a place.  It was hot and humid.    Here he was, standing in the sun. Unbecoming to a pastor, but what choice did he have? And what was keeping Joseph?  He considered a tart remark, then abandoned it. Patience, Elias, patience, he told himself. God had a purpose even in this. A house fly inspected him and then flew off. He wondered about the sanitaton, and sniffed.  The smell was country air, with no hint of pollution. \par
\par
Now he was sitting on a folding chair, of all things, as was Bishop Berg. They were in the one small room in the trailer. A card table had been folded and was leaning against the wall.  A small bookcase and a filing cabinet were the only other furniture. There was a broom in the corner and a large thermos that smelled of coffee on top of the bookcase, as well as a few coffee cups upside down. Pastor Straedner had been confused on entering, as there was no kneeler and the Bishop was wearing a t-shirt that said "Love God and Do What You Please", of all things. The walls bore marks of the removal of counters and the former camper equipment, although it had been repainted.  \lang9 A poster proclaimed "Poshlost Free Zone" on the wall.  It was unfortunate if there were Russian Eppers here.  He viewed them as semi-barbaric, strange, uncivilized. 'Poshlost' was Russian but he could not remember the meaning.  Probably crude, if it was the Russians.  But then this was a Bishop, and his name was Berg. There was a plain brass cross opposite the door. \lang1033\par
\par
"I am Keith Berg," said the Bishop.\par
\par
"I am Pastor Elias Straedner," said he, putting a gentle and respectful emphasis on "Pastor', lest he be thought he was rebuking a bishop and to demonstrate his deference. He was used to kneeling before his bishop and found this folding chair arrangement quite odd, disconcerting, disorienting.\par
\par
"We are not long on titles around here.  I do not use the title of Bishop. It is no longer appropriate. I was laicized, as you may know , and we reserve 'Pastor' for those fully recognized as such here.  Currently that would be only Paul de le Grande, but he does not like it. In your correspondence you filled me in on everything that has happened to you, which is all too common these days. I am afraid you are not recognized as a pastor here, and it may be very difficult, because you have been called that for forty years."\par
\par
"Fifty," said the ex-pastor, feeling it. It was like exsanguination. Like the discovery that there were charges against him.  Like the end of his trial. Like leaving his settlement, knowing it was no longer his and he would never return. Loss on loss, pain on pain, blow on blow.  Each bearable, but the sum - sometimes it seemed like a mountainous weight, more than he could bear. \par
\par
"If I may say so, you will have to work on your identity in Christ instead of in your ministry. You may find it very refreshing. Invigorating and encouraging.  Maybe not at first.  It took me a while to get over no longer being a Bishop, let alone a pastor. Enjoy being free of the burdens of being a pastor. Smell the flowers. Enjoy life.  Be grateful for what you have."\par
\par
They looked at each other for a moment.\par
\par
"It may take some time of mourning and grief for what you have lost - and I share your pain - but for the good and health of your soul, you must move on. Do you agree?"\par
\par
Of course he agreed.  He almost said, "As the Bishop wishes," but he held his tongue, and merely nodded.  Words were failing him.\par
\par
"Where shall we live? How shall my man servant find us living quarters?"\par
\par
"As for that, I have spoken to Joseph.  He is no longer your 'man-servant' and wishes to start his life anew. Apart from you, I am afraid."\par
\par
"He was under vow."\par
\par
"An unjust vow. I released him from it."\par
\par
The Pastor did not know what to say.  He flushed, remembering that it had been forced on him almost against his will.  But isn't that what servants are for, to do what you want even against their own will?  But there was justice here that cut across the past. He would have to admit that the Bishop had done right.  A servant could approach a bishop and be released from a vow.  And the pastor could not utter a word in protest. That was the system he was familiar with.   \par
\par
He did not recall the Bishop's parting words as he made his way, as directed, to the Medical Center for a thorough examination.  This was a blow, perhaps the final blow, the final separation: Joesph had been his faithful man-servant for many, many years. He'd been in every meeting, taken every note, acted as personal secretary, chaffeur, screen, polished his shoes, done laundry, even made his bed and arranged for cooks, all household staff, everything, so the Pastor was free to pastor. And now he was gone, and so was Mrs. Straedner, who, painfully, had chosen to stay with the settlement while her husband was exiled.  That had been betrayal, almost unforgivable. He could not have believed it of her.  And the children as well. He had always put the ministry first, as he had told her while they were courting, and she had always accepted it.  But he had thought Joseph loyal.  \par
\par
It was not a proper medical center.  Only a house, if obviously Epper-built.  The doctor made him sit in the waiting room for twenty minutes to see if his heart rate would be reduced.  He was under stress. He found himself pouring out his heart to the doctor, who listened quietly. "Not the first time I have heard such a story. I am sorry; I am sure Keith Berg gave you good advice."\par
\par
"The bishop?"\par
\par
"Well, we do not call him that."\par
\par
He looked at the tent with distaste: a bright and cheerful holiday tent, with bright yellow and green stripes.  He went inside and found four cots, the empty one was obviously his. On it he deposited what he had been carrying: a change of clothes, linens,pillow. On the little table at the head he put the small clear bag containing a bar of soap and a few other hygiene items and the flashlight.  He turned it on and off again and made sure it was still working. He had his own familiar, personal Epper Bible with the English and the Hebrew and the Greek, underlined and marked up over the years. That was it.  That was all he had, except for his polished leather shoes which went under the cot. Pastor Straedner looked around his new quarters with distaste.  He had been told Joseph was in another part of the camp and in all likelihood they would not be seeing much of each other.  His cot was just like the other three. He looked at his new workboots, well-crafted of leather, with distaste.  They were already on his feet, of course, which had happened back at the Hanger.  The other three beds were neatly made and there was a plastic tub with a closed lid under each, and a few hangers on twine line near each that served as a closet. He arranged his Bible on the little folding table at the head of his cot and the towels on his hangers, the linens and pillow on the cot, but he did not make it up like a bed.  He could not bring himself to do that menial work. Instead he carefully sat on the cot and leaned over, hands clasped, and attempted prayer. \par
\par
Nothing came.  There was the sound of the camp: children laughing, guitars and singing in various directions, the clanging of a kitchen as lunch preparations were underway, and talking, talking, talking. English. Dutch. Russian. Japanese. Other languages he did not recognize. People smells, and behind it the smell of prairie grass, his own sweat smell. What had they said about showers?  He sat there in darkness, at the end of everything, nowhere to go, nothing to do, known by no one, knowing no one. \par
\par
How long, he did not know.  There was a cough. "If I may interrrupt your prayer," said the young woman,"We have found a work assignment.  You will be in the Hanger itself, helping new people come in. We understand you are fluent in Koine and German, and can sustain a conversation in Russian?"\par
\par
"Well, I have some Arabic, Hebrew and Aramaic as well," Pastor Straedner declared, letting her know in no uncertain terms what her place was. "But yes. That is what I said. I assume I will be giving them counsel and direction?"\par
\par
She laiughed. "If you can call it that.  You will be taking them to go see the doctor, and if they have language troubles, you will take them there and interpret. And explain about the boots and the snakes, among other things, like what dining hall they are assigned to, what tent, what showers and latrines: basically taking them through orientation, if you want to call it that, just like what you did before you came here. Tell them to get their stuff and find their tent. Now, can you find the Hanger from here?"\par
\par
"Certainly. It is very obvious."  Well, it was sort of pastoral work. In a way.  He would be of some limited use, which was more than he might expect. At seventy-four, used to a sedentary life and set in his ways, he certainly could not work in the quarry.\par
\par
"Well, good. Some people have trouble. I see you have not made your cot up."\par
\par
"Well, no."\par
\par
"Do you know how?"\par
\par
Perhaps she would do it for him? There was a moment of eye contact. They she said, "You can watch your tent mates. They can show you.  I'm not making your cot up for you.  That is your job.  A cot needs to be made up,  for neatness, and it keeps the bugs out -  and other creatures.  And we have standards. "\par
\par
\par
"People have been complaining.  You need to look friendly."\par
\par
"Friendly. Well."  The people who had been arriving were, shall he say, not the sort he would want in a settlement, and he thought they should take the hint and leave.\par
\par
She looked at him for a moment. "I am sure there is something else you can do here.  How about if you go back to your tent until we find it?"\par
\par
How utterly humiliating. \par
\par
 When he got back to his tent he found his shoes, his good pastoral shoes, his expensive shiny black shoes, his familiar shoes that had seen years of good comfortable use at weddings, funerals, baptisms, sermons, services, counseling, meetings, etc., were missing. It was like they were a part of him, another part, now missing.  What was left of him? What more could be taken?  It was clear this was a den of thieves.   It was clear to him that he had gotten so comfortable as a pastor that he had gotten to relaxing his spiritual disciplines, like trust.  He needed to work on that. And joy. Hope. Faith. Love.  Everything, in fact.  His soul was a shriveled up ball of frustration.  Well, he would meet the challenges.  1 Peter 1 and all that.  \par
\par
He frowned suspiciously at the two workers outside the tent.  They were cutting a shallow groove into the rock, presumably to drain water.  There was a whole system of these little grooves being cut that led down somewhere, where they caught all the rain water. They did not have the shoes.\par
\par
"Ah- Mr. Berg."  The good bishop - how could a pastor not call him that: he would have to train his mind -  had changed into a suit and was sitting under the canopy, his stole in front of him. Beside it the Order Of Services was open and his finger was tracing out the text.\par
\par
"Keith." Keith looked up questioningly. "What is wrong?"\par
\par
"A great number of things."\par
\par
"I am sorry to hear that.  I am on my way to a funeral in Nicholls.  The funeral of a small child, in fact, one who died here a few days ago. Elizabeth Mirren, three years old and very sweet.  She will be missed. You are, I see,  dressed for a funeral." He looked at the pastor for a moment. "I think you should come with me.  Yes, I think so."  Despite the boots, soon polished to perfection, he found himself assisting at funerals. It reminded him of days long ago, in his pastoral internship, and was pastoral work.  He also realized that there were others worse off that he was, many far worse.  His grim face and sober manner was reassuring to many Eppers in times of grief and a comfort, and he found he could comfort people simply by silence and presence.   Keith did not allow him to lead through the order of service, even though he knew it by heart. He was not allowed to speak unless spoken to.  It was sort of the role of an amanuensis, which was familiar and thus a comfort, and he implicitly understood that he was not to proffer his opnion, and then as little as possible.  Some of what happened was not what he would do, much was unheard of, and it was an education.  But he was silent on those things.  \par
\par
"What do you do between funerals?" Keith asked him one day.\par
"I go to my tent and wait until summoned."\par
"I think it would help us all if you got to know some of the people.  If you don't mind me saying so, You come off as aloof.  I know they are not Eppers. But you have to love people where they are at. Jesus does."\par
\par
"Well, yes."\par
\par
"We have many good people here it would benefit you to know. And I think it benefits them to know you." \par
\par
----\par
How did what must have been more leadership struggles than portrayed so far not happen, with this weak level of leadership?  Very passive and absent.  How did that work? How was Paul not faced with potential supplanters and people demanding more vision and action from him? He would tell them to go and do whatever - some things worked, some things crashed and left a mess.  \par
\par
A teenage girl named Renee was raped and chose to bear the baby to term.  Keith promised her the full support of everyone, especially of himself and his wife. New Haven took her in.\par
\par
}
 