{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green77\blue187;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 Sometime in October 1976, Lower Peninsula, Michigan\ul\b0\par
Exit\cf1\ulnone\par
\cf0 "Why do we have to leave?" Mark asked.  \par
Matthew understood things that Mark did not. \par
"We have to go.  I am - I am no longer welcome here. And since I take care of you-"\par
"But this is home!"\par
"Not any more."\par
"Why?"\par
Matthew paused, trying to think of a way that Mark could understand. How could he tell Mark he had been tried and convicted of heresy and was no longer a member of the settlement, or welcome there.   No longer welcome: he could no longer stay there.  What an Epper could believe even a year ago was no longer acceptable. This was crazy, this witch-hunt, pushed by people who thought doctrinal purity was the way to perfection, or something.  At least his truck was his, and they had given him monetary compensation, more than fair, for his time to date.  Some of the elders were sad to see him go, but a minority, and more sad that he would not repent.  Money was not used internally in the settlement or even between settlements,  but Eppers used it with outsiders and considered that they had a keen understanding of its value, sometimes to the amusement of outsiders.  But generally it was hard to get the advantage of an Epper negotiation.  \par
When Matthew had gone to Pharmacy School, the settlement had paid his way.   That had meant negotiations in his tuition, in his room and board, books - everything.  To an Epper a set price was an asking price. Pharmacy School had not been cheap but Matthew suspected it had cost the settlement less than half of what it would be otherwise. A scholarship, for example, had materialized out of nowhere, which bought the bursar some peace of mind.  \par
And his truck....He'd worked outside the settlement as an assistant pharmacist before becoming the pharmacist for four settlements.  His salary had gone back into the settlement, and when he had bought a truck, they had taken eight hours to negotiate the price down to a third of its worth.  He'd bought it back the previous year for that, less depreciation, as part of his contract. \par
Now the door banged open and Luke stood just inside, not coming fully into the room, his huge frame filling the door although he was still a teenager.  He hesitated. "Matthew, I can take care of Mark. You should not have - I mean, I can take care of him."\par
"I am still his older brother.  I promised Papa. If anything happens to me, you can take care of him. Until then, my promise stands."\par
Luke's face was  a mask. "You are. Certainly. You understand I cannot shake your hand. Or discuss with  you  this position you have taken."\par
"I understand.  I just never thought I would ever be convicted of heresy and banned."\par
"Well, he isn't," Luke said,"that is my point."  Mark looked from one to the other, a little confused by this.\par
There was a silence.\par
"Where are you going? Officially I am not asking.  But you are still my brother."\par
"I'll write when I get there.  I am planning to go to a place called Nicholls, Missouri."\par
"Isn't that -"\par
"Yes. Pastor  - \i ex-Pastor \i0 - Jakob Profim's place.  A lot of exiled people are going there, it seems.  From what I can tell, they are building a number of Epper colonies. Ex-Epper colonies, to be more exact, in the area."\par
"Well, don't put a return address on the envelope. People would see it and there would be talk. But please put one inside, ok? May you repent, brother."\par
"And you also," Matthew returned. "Your turn may be next as they tighten the screws."\par
And Luke was gone.\par
\par
Matthew looked around the Epper settlement for the last time. Only a few people were out and about in the grey-painted town, clothed in black against the grey walls along the narrow alleys between buildings. He was still baffled by lawns and the huge sprawling spaces Americans lived in. But here the horizontal slats were painted grey,  the vertical trim  all a brilliant white, meant to make people remember that our vertical relationship with God is to be holy and pure and eternal, but our horizontal relationships with others were a mixture of sin and purity and fragile, and so let us purify them and treasure them, because on earth they do not last.  How ironic. \par
 People did not meet his gaze. There was Elizabeth, watching from a distance. They would have been married, except for this, her eyes seemed to say when they made eye contact for a second, then she turned and walked out of sight.  Here was the color scheme in action.  God alone was his friend now.  You could never tell what Mark understood or followed.  Matthew thought of him more as a brother than a friend.  Now his only brother.\par
Matthew loaded up the truck with their few clothes, some food that had appeared on the door step from unknown sympathizers, Mark's wheel and his tools, as well as Matthew's own books.  Matthew was a pharmacist and hoped for work.  Then came Mark's own bags of bentonite, and Matthew realized he would have to unload everything and put the heavy bags of bentonite, Georgia  kaolinite, and a few other clays in first. Right then he really missed Luke. Mark had wanted to take the kiln but they had said it would stay.  There were other potters here and what they were giving Mark was fair.  Matthew helped Mark into the truck and got him buckled in.  It was only a minute or so later when the settlement was no longer even in the rear view mirror, a dull grey town with its people in black.  This was farther than Mark had ever been.\par
"Where are we going?" Mark wanted to know, for the hundredth time.  \par
"Nicholls, Missouri."\par
"Are the people there nice?"\par
"I hope so."\par
"Will they throw us out?"\par
"No, they won't throw us out."  Matthew had good reasons for saying so.  He hoped they were valid.\par
"Will they throw you out, like they did here?"\par
"No."\par
"Will they throw me out?"\par
"No."\par
"Do they have a kiln? I want a kiln. How can I make anything without a kiln?"\par
"God will provide a kiln."\par
"Very true.  Does God know we left the settlement?"\par
"God knows everything."\par
"Look, a frog!" Mark was playing with some pieces of clay. He had fashioned it into a frog with a smile.\par
"Very nice, Mark.  Did you know our last name means frog in Dutch?"\par
"I thought it was Kikker because we kick people. But I never kicked anybody."\par
"No, you haven't."\par
"Have you ever kicked anybody?"\par
"When I was little. But not since."\par
"I've never kicked anyone.  We are going to Missouri."\par
"Yes, we are."\par
"So we go through Michigan - part of Michigan, Indiana, Illinois and then Missouri?" Or are we going through Wisconsin, then Iowa, and then to Missouri?"\par
"I am thinking the first route."\par
"You said Nicholls?"\par
"I did."\par
"That is the county seat of Nicholls County. Nicholls County is bordered on the North by Cass County. Harrisonville is the county seat of Cass County. Bates County is to the sourh of Nicholls County. Henry County is to the east. Do you want to know the names of the other counties bordering Nicholls County?"\par
"That is ok, my brother."\par
"How about the geological formations? The topography is extraordinarily flat.  The book I read made me thunk of a joke. You told me it was funny. That God made Nicholls County after he used up all His ideas elsewhere. Do you want to hear about the highways? Plant and animal life?  Railroads? Airports? Nicholls has a very small private airstrip and a community hospital and two churches. One is St. George's Catholic Church and the other is the Epper Church in Nicholls. Do you want to hear about the Epper church?"\par
"That is ok, my brother.  I will not be welcome there, either."\par
"Then where are we going? You said we cannot go to the church there."\par
"There are people who have been exiled from the Eppers who are building a settlement there." Matthew wondered: would he really be welcome there? A sense of loneliness and estrangement swept over him.  He was tempted to turn the truck around and return, apologize for heresy, and beg for readmission.  They would forgive him. All he would lose would be his pride. And his honesty.  And his self-respect. And his conscience.  He kept driving.  He was irritated at himself for having a conscience, and for disagreeing with everyone he knew.  If he was a better person, he thought, he could have resolved this.  But then he thought of better people he knew of, like Bishop Berg, who had been forced out.  The whole thing had a nightmarish quality about it, like he refused on some level to believe this was happening.  Eppers do not do this to people.  Even though the people at the settlement had been very kind, and even reluctant, in doing it, and the orders had come down from outside the settlement, and they had to do it.  They were as kind as possible in their cruelty. \par
 I think you read the book on Missouri I gave you."\par
"I read the one on Michigan. And the ones on Kansas, Iowa, Minnesota and Nebraska. Do you want to hear the names of their capitals in order of decreasing size according to the last census? Or alphabetically? Or by the lengths of their names? Or what letters they all have in common?"\par
"That is ok, my brother. How about if we sing some psalms and hymns to God?"\par
"I have  ten thousand, two hundred and forty five hymns memorized as well as the entire Old Testament in the common translation. What would you like to sing?"\par
"Amazing Grace." So they sang Amazing Grace.  Matthew kept count: they sang it one hundred and five times until they crossed the state line into Indiana. Mark was happy, singing a familiar song.  God was still in heaven and Christ was on the throne. Perhaps - no, somehow - His hand was at work in this, although hidden.  God moved most when most hidden, as they said. \par
At a rest stop Matthew helped Mark out of the truck. He slowly made his way to the restroom. Matthew kept one eye on Mark and another on the truck.\par
"Would you like to see my frogs?" Mark asked.\par
"I would very much like to see your frogs," Matthew replied.  There was a line of clay frogs across the dashboard on Mark's side of the truck, all with bemused expressions, comical if you will. Each was a little bigger than a fist.  It was hard to believe that Mark had done these without tools, as a passenger in the truck on the highway. And the suspension hadn't given them the smoothest ride.  But the frogs were lined up like a squad of demented dwarves.\par
"Oh, that's cute!" a woman passing by the truck caught sight of the frogs. "Kyle, come look at this! How funny!"\par
"Thank you," said Mark, who was returning, "they are made out of a common fine clay used for earthenware."\par
"Where did you get them?"\par
"He made them while I was driving," Matthew interjected. \par
"I got the clay from Adam's creekbed, near the old oak," explained Mark,"But I don't think we will be there again."  He seemed to think everyone knew where Adam's creekbed was. \par
"No we won't," said Matthew. "If you will excuse us, we will be going."\par
"If you ever sell those in a store I would buy one. Thank you," the lady said, and with that Matthew was on the road again.\par
"Sounds like your frogs are popular," Matthew told his brother.\par
"Did you know the demand for a commodity or service varies inversely with changes in its price? The lower the cost the more popular in other words.  That was from ' An Introduction to Macroeconomics.'"\par
"Yes, I took the course.  I see you have been looking at my books."\par
"Does that mean that if my frogs are popular then they must not sell for very much?"\par
"I -"\par
"Are you bored? Would you like to pick any one of your books and ask me what is on a given page?"\par
"No, that is all right, Mark."\par
\ul Arrival\ulnone\par
The rusty old cattlle gate was shaking in the chill wind early on an October morning. It was at the end of a well-worn but well maintained gravel lane bordered by barbed-wire fence  that extended back to the county road. It was actually chillier than back home in Michigan. Matthew remembered that it was no longer home there, never would be again. \par
The gate was open.  Matthew stopped just in front anyway, his stomach in knots. This was it. He knew no one here. He only knew of this place by hearsay and an article in the Epper Journal, and that had been one paragraph.  Suddenly it seemed like crossing the cattleguard was like crossing the Red Sea for Israel - no turning back, a new country. He had been driven from the home he had always known.    A new home. He prayed silently and looked.  On his left was a wide area of grass that was shaking in the wind, and before him was a large parking area, mostly stone but gravel in places, and mostly empty. Across it was an enormous building, one story but tall and wide. On his right were a few  scattered tents whose stovepipes pushed smoke into the chilly air.  \par
To the north was a short row of houses, the northernmost one of which was being framed, or rather temporary supports were being built to carry rock, as it would be made out of stone.   The cool air carried the sharp crack of hammers and the burr of saws.  Near them  were a few houses, a stable and a barn, as well as what looked like some derelict farm buildings behind a fence, and a few more buildings.  Matthew drove north to near the houses, where there were a few other cars and trucks, and pulled into what suggested itself as a parking space.  The ground was remarkably rocky: almost no soil and there was gravel in the holes in the rock that allowed it to be smoother than it would be otherwise. Tufts of grass had found purchase here and there and waved in the wind. \par
"Wait here," Matthew told Mark.  He got out into the wind.  It was still fall, but the sharp wind promised winter was coming down from the north. \par
A few minutes later he returned with a young woman. Mark immediately fell in love with her.  But then, he fell in love with a lot of women and it usually caused problems. People had told him to not tell them he loved them, but there it always was on his face. Usually they could tell.\par
"Hi, Mark, I'm CJ.  We are going to go to the medical center and talk about some things."\par
"They have doctors at medical centers. Is it like a hospital? Does it have a pharmacy? An emergency room? Physical therapy? Radiology? A cafeteria? A chapel?"\par
"He is very sharp in some ways. You'll get used to it."\par
"Like a very small hospital. It's just that there is a bathroom inside and there is no room right now anywhere else for anyone.  We are kind of crowded at the moment. And it's warm."\par
"They are building a house," Mark said, and pointed.    "Winter is too cold to stay in tents for most people. Did you know that there are heaters that can provide sufficient heat to survive a winter comfortably in a tent? Outside exhaust is mandatory. Would you like to hear a list of companies that provide such heaters in decreasing order by BTU?"\par
"That is ok," Matthew said. \par
"Would you like to hear a list of types of houses, for example row house, ranch, raised ranch -"\par
"No. That's all right, Mark." \par
"I see what you mean." CJ said.  They were slowly walking.  Mark's crutches had some difficulties with the terrain and the wind.   \par
"What do you see?" Mark wanted to know.\par
"I mean, I understand what you said."\par
"Then why didn't you express it clearly?"\par
"Mark, she did."\par
"Oh. How can you see something that is clear? You see right through it like it is not even there.  But  I think you are pretty."\par
CJ laughed. "That is neither here nor there.  But thank you.  You have better things to think about, Mark."\par
"Helen of Troy was beautiful.  Would you like to hear about Helen of Troy? There are other women who were very beautiful. Would you like to hear about Bathsheba?"\par
"No, that is all right," Matthew and CJ said together. \par
"Windy here," Matthew said.\par
"They call it a lazy wind, because it doesn't go around you, it's too lazy. Instead it goes right through you."  CJ smiled.\par
Then she had to explain it to Mark, which took some doing.\par
\par
The medical center was simply a house with some hospital beds and an examining room in an empty bedroom.   \par
CJ offered them water or coffee, which they declined. They sat in the living room, which doubled as a lobby. \par
"You say you've just arrived.  I wish Jeannie was here, but she's not. And the doctor is away, too, and the nurse. Pastor Paul is building, and I don't like to disturb him when he is working. You see, you have arrived at an awkward time.  I can see if Bishop - Elder Berg is available."\par
"I can't return home. Elder Berg?  Would that be Bishop Keith Berg, formerly of Ohio?"\par
"Well, his first name is Keith.  We call him Elder Berg, at least I do.  And he is from Ohio. I am sorry you cannot return home.  There are a lot of people who cannot.  I can't, but for different reasons. I don't understand this theological purge the Eppers are doing.  But a lot of good people are coming here.  The thing is, winter is coming and we are not ready.  I saw your plates - you are from Michigan, so you know what winter can be like.  There will be food at lunch in the dining hall - a small lunch, for only a few, but you are welcome. Jeannie is away.  Jeannie de le Grande.  Today is just a really slow day."\par
"Time slows down when your velocity approaches the speed of light. Would you like to hear about the two theories of relativity? There is the general theory and the special theory. Albert Einstein - "\par
"No, that is all right," Matthew said. \par
"There is also quantum mechanics.  Did you know no one has ever let me tell them about quantum mechanics? But then no one who thinks they understands it knows what they are talking about.  But personally - I make plates and cups and platters. I am a potter," Mark told her. "It  is important that a man be able to provide for a woman he wanted to marry." \par
"We don't have a potter here, now anyway.  There really is not much if any clay." she ignored the second, unmistakable part of what he said.  "You may have to find lodgings in Harrisonville. You said you were a pharmacist? You should be able to find a job just about anywhere, then."\par
"I also make frogs," said Mark. \par
"You make frogs-"\par
"Yes, I am a pharmacist," Matthew said, quickly. "I am licensed in Michigan but there should be comity in Missouri."\par
"Frogs," CJ repeated, looking at Mark, "What about the other plagues?"\par
The door opened, and a man whose expression said "clerical" stepped through.\par
"Hello.  I noticed new people going by, and I figured they would be here," he said,  "I have a free minute."\par
"Elder Berg, these are Matthew and Mark Kikker, lately of Michigan."\par
"Nice to meet you," Elder Berg said, dispensing with the formal greeting typical of an Epper Bishop.   \par
"And you as well," Matthew replied, " Are you - pardon my possibly intrusive question - formerly the bishop of Ohio?"\par
"Not at all intrusive. Questions are welcome.  A good way to arrive at the truth.  But yes, I was.  Now I am here."\par
"I followed your heresy trial in \i the Epper Epistle. \i0 You could say that you brought me here."\par
"Oh. How so?"\par
"I read your statement on healing and I turned to my friend and said that we cannot really rule out that God works supernaturally today. That was enough.  The ordinary has given purging powers to the local churches, and felt that there had not been enough action and vigor applied, and I was tried and convicted of heresy for that one statement. I think it is true, and I am not backing down."\par
"Then you are a man of integrity, but I am sorry to hear that things have reached such a pass. What they are doing is a moral evil.  Our job in the world is to redress wrongs, as Christ did; I fear they are wounding people.  So what I would like to do is help you in any way we can."\par
"There are passes in the games of football and basketball. Would you like to hear a list of them?" Mark chimed in.\par
"No, that is all right," said Matthew.  Elder Berg looked at them each.  \par
"I need to be going," said CJ.\par
"Would you be willing to ask Pastor Paul to be kind enough to come by here?" he asked.\par
"Most certainly, Be happy to," she said.  "Later you can tell me about the frogs." She waved her fingers at them and flitted out the door. \par
"Paul deLaGrande is an ordained Epper pastor.  He is one of the elders here."\par
"And what is this place? Does it have a name?"\par
"Not really.  Mostly we call it Profim's Property.  Some call it Eppers in Exile - Epperex, but no one likes either name. Someday we will think of something.  It is a long drive from Michigan. and I imagine you would like to have some place to call home.\par
They both nodded. \par
 Paul came in.  He smelled of fresh-cut pine and was dressed in a carpenter's overalls.  He had obviously been brushing sawdust off himself, but there was still some here and there. Beneath the severe solemnity of an elder was a lot of good humor.  Matthew had noted before that for many Eppers of a certain temperment it was hard to hold one's laughter in. \par
"\i Elder Berg\i0 ," he said,"what can I do for you?"\par
"\i Pastor de La Grande\i0 , these are Matthew and Mark Kikker, brothers just arrived from Michigan. Matthew has been separated from Epper fellowship." Everyone shook hands. \par
"I am very sorry to hear that. That has been happening a lot lately. And Mark?"\par
"I take care of him," Matthew stated quietly. Elder Berg looked at them and listened. \par
"He takes care of me. Would you like to hear all the things he helps me with?"\par
"No, that is all right," Matthew told him.\par
"Well, we have been trying to get people to winter quarters.  We are simply unable to lodge anyone else for the winter.  We have some northern types bound and determined to stay, and they are mainly working on the houses, and there is a settlement some miles north of here, an ex-Epper settlement, newly formed, of some one hundred fifty people, but they are getting ready for winter, as well as holding to closed separatism, even though they are no longer Epper.  I don't know what reception you would receive.  As you are a pharmacist, you should be able to find lodging near your work."\par
"There are many kinds of lodges. Would you like to hear a list of the kind of lodges?"\par
"That's all right, Mark."\par
"I am not sure exactly how to approach what may be a delicate subject.  Matthew, I don't want to make you feel awkward in any way.  But I asked Paul to come in so that we would have 'elders'. There are two things to discuss: you being here, which is always something that is good for both Paul and myself to be in on, when new people come, and then there is Mark's health. You are certainly welcome here, which covers the first point, and we will do what we can to accommodate you, within reason. And, as a second point, and not at all connected, if you don't mind, I would like to do a little pastoring.   You are Eppers.  Christians. You trust Jesus Christ for your salvation? And subscribe to the Confession?"\par
"Yes, we do." They both nodded. \par
"I would like to know more about Mark's health.  Mark, forgive my bluntness, and you have just arrived, but are you open to prayer?"\par
"For what? That God would allow him to bear his cross more readily?"\par
"I pray. Would you like to hear the Lord's prayer? I have all the psalms memorized in the common translation and the Greek.  There are prayers in the New Testament I have memorized as well. Would you like to hear Ephesians Three?"\par
"No, although that is a good prayer. Both, I mean, for bearing the cross, and Ephesians Three.   I would like to pray for healing."\par
"For healing.  You mean that. I mean, you do. Well, that is a thought.  I conceded the possibility that God could move supernaturally today, and here we are, and this is the, this is the logical consequence.  So I cannot refuse your offer, I suppose, although any Epper would shudder at the thought. Sorry, I seem to be stuttering."  This was his integrity manifest, that this elder, once a bishop, banned for heresy, was going to pray in a way that Matthew's own reasoning said was right.  But something inside him whispered that this was wrong.  Reason and emotion struggled in him for a minute, and reason won, just as it had back in Michigan. This was the other side of the Red Sea, another country. The waters had closed behind him; there was no return to Egypt.  He had arrived.\par
After a minute Elder Berg responded, "I pray the church changes.  And deep in my bones I am still an Epper, but deeper than that I am loyal to Christ. And He said to heal the sick."\par
"Yes, He did.  I think you take that seriously for our time, now. But you don't think it would be absolutely restricted, for example, on the mission field, so that people would believe? Mark is a Christian, after all."\par
"I think God pours out His gifts and grace abundantly.  He does not always heal, but it is not that He does not always not heal.  It is worth asking Him."\par
Matthew nodded, although his face was tense. "It is really up to Mark. Mark, would you mind if these men prayed for you for healing?"\par
"Healing for what? Did I cut myself?  Would you like to hear a list of all the dates and locations and injuries I have done to myself?"\par
"No, that is all right. Healing that you could understand better things around you. And that you could walk like other people."\par
"You mean - that I would be normal and not hurt and understand what is happening? I don't understand what is going on a lot. I would like to be better than I am."\par
"Yes." they said.\par
"Well, what are you waiting for? I want that so much," he said. "Would you like a list of all the times when I have not understood people talking around me?"\par
"No, that is all right."\par
"So let's pray," Mark said.  Matthew could tell Elder Berg would have liked more of a medical history than the nothing he had received, but also that this was not the time.  The four joined hands, which was new to Mark and less so to Matthew, as he had at least read about it, and then Elder Berg then prayed quietly , "Lord Jesus, come and heal your servant Mark by the power of the Holy Spirit. And make the way straight for these two. Amen."\par
The others said amen as well.\par
"We don't need to pray at length," Elder Berg smiled. "Nor do we need to see lights or visions or hear angels, or see immediate results. We just need to trust the Lord."\par
Matthew nodded.  Nothing had changed, but , again, there was that sense that they had crossed a line into a new future, once again, one that he had no control over.  He realized that he had crossed that line long ago, when he had read that article. He kept crossing the line.  He wondered to himself how many lines there would be.  The first line had been an article written by the man sitting across from him.  An article saying God healed today.  "Well, that was not 'sensationalistic.'  But it was a first for me. "\par
"I trust the Lord," Mark said,"Did you know that there are a lot of words that mean 'trust'? Obey, believe, hear, for example. Would you like to hear them all?"\par
"Yes, that is good," Elder Berg said, speaking to Matthew and then to both, "If you have any pastoral concerns, Paul and I are available 24-7.  Although Paul is building houses 24-7.  He prefers Paul to Pastor DeLaGrande. For me, I answer to Elder Berg, or Keith.  I try to discourage the 'Bishop' - that is of the past now."\par
Paul nodded. "Souls are more important.  But I need to get back to the house, if you are done with me."\par
After he left Matthew began,"It will take some time before I can get my Missouri pharmicist's license.  It is probably fairly easy, because of reciprocity, but nonetheless these things take time.  Is it all right if we stay here for a month or two.  I want to be out by winter, but we are used to Michigan winters on an Epper settlement."\par
"That's fine.  There is a dining hall for the people in tents. Some of those in the houses eat there, too.  We used to have many more, larger dining halls.   The dining hall is heated, also. The hangers have no heating or cooling and are very drafty.  In terms of staying, we are mainly concerned about people who do not know winter, and the elderly and the very young trying to live through a Missouri winter in a tent.  You two seem fit enough that I see no reason to try to get you to leave.  Especially since you are a pharmacist."\par
"What do you mean?"\par
"We have a great doctor, and we have a great nurse, but we have no pharmacist."\par
"Is that a job offer?"\par
"It would not be full time, not right now.  Last summer we could have used a pharmacist AND a few technicians, when the place was flooded with people.  We expect it will happen again. Right now we are more in need of carpenters.  Can you swing a hammer?"\par
"Well, I can carry wood. I can hit a nail one out of ten tries."\par
"It's a lot more cutting and moving stone at this point, I am afraid. Back-breaking work."\par
"I am a potter. I can make bowls and plates and cuts and platters."\par
"He is actually very good."\par
"Is there a kiln here? I cannot be a potter without a kiln. I brought my wheel and my clay but I need a kiln."\par
"I don't know.  There is a lady named Joyce Dunbar who would know."\par
"Where is she? I need to find out if she has a kiln."\par
"There are none in operation here.  She finds things. You know the big building when you came in? We call it the Hanger.  It has all sorts of things she has collected over the years. There may be a kiln in there.  But she is living in Nicholls.  She may be here later today."\par
"I need a kiln."\par
"God called you to be a potter, so God will provide a kiln."\par
"Yes," Mark said,"Where God guides, He provides, where He leads He feeds, and what He orders He pays for."\par
"That's good," Elder Berg said, looking at him,"God is faithful. He cannot deny Himself."\par
"I heard it somewhere," Mark said.\par
"But we also are called to walk in faith and obedience. Sanctification is synergistic, after all. And this always seems to be forgotten somehow."\par
\ul Start-Up\ulnone\par
The kiln, a massive commercial kiln that required 480v power, had been sitting unused because of its power requirement, and Joyce Dunbar had picked it up when the previous owner only wanted to get rid of it.  Now it was gathering dust in the labyrinth of the hanger.\par
The problem was that it required more electrical power than was available on the property. They had run electric lines out from town, but they were concerned about adding the extra load.  So the kiln would have to be located elsewhere, as in town.\par
Pruitt's Machine Shop in Nicholls had been sitting idle since the 1950s, when the owner retired and his sons were not interested in continuing the business. It was in an industrial area and had the power lines already installed, although they were old.\par
Matthew and Mark looked through it with the real estate agent.  It was an art-deco style building with parking spaces in front and a truck door.  The windows were intact and the blinds were pulled down, just as they had been on the day Pruitt had retired and walked away.  His son had inherited it and was willing to let it go "name your price."  The light brown brick-work looked fine and did not even need tuckpointing, amazing after twenty five    years.  There were those curious narrow alleys on either side that a grown man had to go down sideways, but both were clear and Matthew saw no problems.  The back had a short truck dock and a door.  There was a band of windows all around the sides and the back. Above the front store-front window it said "PRUITT MACHINE COMPANY" and in smaller letters "19 S. Spruce', that being the address.  It looked like it was three stories tall, but there was only the one floor. \par
It took some WD-40 to get the keys to work in the two locks, the knob-lock and then the deadbolt, and the door opened, softly, silently, on perfectly balanced hinges as if it had been installed by a master craftsman the day before.  It was well lit, although cob-webby, and still smelled of oil and metal shavings.\par
The water had been shut off of course, long ago.   A jar of industrial hand soap, "Good for removing all oils and greases" stood on the shelf above the sink in the combination furnace room and bathroom, complete with a shower.  On the shelf were a black comb and a toothbrush, and an empty tube of toothpaste ants had taken care of long ago. An ancient roll of toilet paper, the spare, was matched by the half-used roll on the roller.\par
In its glory days the shop  had boasted a drill press, a band saw, a metal press, as well as the full range of smaller equipment typical of a machine shop, such as several grinders, finishing tubs, equipment, tools, and supplies, but after Mr. Pruitt had died his sons had sold it all off, so there was an empty and echoing feeling in the vast open room.  The little front office was empty, but you could see where the desk legs had sat on the linoleum, and there had been a file cabinet and a small bookshelf, by the marks.  The roof was intact and there had been no leakage.  It was in remarkably good condition, a testimony to its excellent construction and thorough and conscientious maintenance it had always received by Mr. Pruitt, despite the neglect and that everything had a fine layer of dust.  The real estate agent made that point several times. \par
"Will this do? I think it would be about perfect."  She sold real estate throughout Nicholls County, out of Harrisonville.  Property simply didn't move in Nicholls County.  There was not even a real estate office in town.  She sold real estate part time and her kids would be out of school soon, so she could not stay.  And there would not exactly be a large commission here. She was here for a friend who was related to the Pruitts. The Pruitts paid taxes on it and checked on it once every few years, and only wanted to get rid of it. She had been told to go as low as a dollar.  \par
"It is bigger than I need," Mark said,"Does it have the power source? Would you like to hear a list of power sources available in Nicholls? I talked to the utility co-op about what is available. It needs 480 volt service but the other systems will require 120v, for the lights and so forth."\par
She nodded. "I checked before we came.  There is already a 480 volt line coming into the building.  The utility will want to check it because it has not been used in such a long time. There is also normal household current - 120 volt, as you said,  for the lights and so forth. So it should work. What do you think? Do you have any questions?"\par
Mark had questions about all the utilities, including the sewers, the gas line, the water lines, telephone and the storm sewers.  The agent knew most of the answers and could get back to him with the ones she didn't know.  Mark wanted to know how much inert gas was in natural gas anyway and where Nicholls got its natural gas from. And Mark had spent a while inspecting the fuse box and made sure he knew each fuse and traced the circuits through the building until he was sure he understood all of them, as well as how to open the windows. He wanted to know how thick the concrete floor was and what reinforcement was in it,  and whether the furnace was big enough, how old it and the water heater were, and whether they needed to be replaced.  He wanted to know how much insulation was in the roof and whether the roof was up to the latest building codes in terms of loading.  This was classic Mark, an unending stream of questions.  And he would remember the answers and offer to  give them to anyone who would listen in an unending torrent.  If you walked out on him, he would continue, and then when you saw him again, he would start up again from where he thought you could no longer hear him, unless you made sure he knew you were not interested. \par
Matthew finally saw that there wasn't much else they could find out.  The agent looked relieved, because Mark had been relentless.  "I'll get you what information I can by tomorrow this time. Call me.  If I don't hear from you in a couple of days, I'll  call you. Ok?"\par
They nodded.  Something was bothering them, she could tell, but she had no idea what it was. She was glad to be able to get to her kids before they started calling.  She was late sometimes and they were used to it.  This was just one of those times. \par
After she had gone and they were back in their truck, Mark brought up a passage about doing business with unbelievers.  \par
"We are separatists," Matthew said. "I think we should find a way to have your kiln on the property."\par
"Elder Berg said we cannot get power there. I need the power for the kiln. Here is the power."\par
"We were separatists. But not now.  Now we are living with other people who are not separatists.  We are living in an American city. Not everyone is an Epper. Not everyone is even a Christian.  Some people here are even Catholic.  Mark, I am feeling a little lost."\par
"Do you know the way back?  I can tell you the streets and roads to get back to where we are staying."  He was silent for a minute. "But ...that is not what you mean."\par
"Very good, Mark! I am not lost but I feel lost.  I don't think I want to live in a separist community again.  I think God has a better plan.  Maybe what they are doing out on that property is the right way to go.  There is also an Epper church here in town, as you said.  You would be welcome there."\par
"Perception, conceptualization, reasonings, feelings and reality do not always coincide. Many things do not coincide. I cannot list them all. In fact, I am tired of rattling off lists."\par
"You are?"\par
"Yes. I do not think it is useful."\par
"It isn't. Not always.  You seem to be changing. Growing."\par
"Everything has changed.  I also feel lost.  We have lost our friends and family back home. We have lost our home. We are cut off, like a tree that has been cut down and left away from its stump.  The stump is still alive.  We know they are still alive, but they cannot talk to us. It is worse than if they died. I miss Mama and Papa and Luke and John and Abby."\par
"Yes. Very true.  And Elisabeth will marry another.  That is hard to take, but is there. I think of her often."\par
"She will marry another....man? Yes, that is what you mean. I understand you better than I did."\par
"I think you do.   We can take comfort in Mark 10:29 -"\par
"Jesus said, "Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or farms, for My sake and for the gospel's sake, but that he will receive a hundred times as much now in the present age, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and farms, along with persecutions; and in the age to come, eternal life."\par
"Yes, that is it."\par
"And my name is Mark!"\par
\par
\par
Back on the property Matthew got out of the truck and walked around it to get Mark out.  Mark had gotten out by himself and was standing there, holding onto the car, something he had not done before.  The distance from the truck cab to the ground had always been too much. The crutch tips had always had a problem finding where the ground was and needed guidance.\par
"Well, this is a day," Matthew said.\par
"What else would it be?" Mark asked.  He grabbed his crutches and carefully walked across to the dining hall as if he had always done it that way.  Matthew stared for a minute, shook his head, and then ran to catch up with him in case he fell. Mark often fell. \par
"How can I buy a building in Nicholls?" Mark asked the first person he met. "What about Epper separatism? Keeping us apart from those who do not believe as we do?"\par
"I live in Nicholls," the first person responded, a middle-aged man with both that sombre Epper look and a laugh around the corners of his eyes.  "And what good has all that Epper separatism ever accomplished? Has it won the world to Christ?  The Eppers have been exiling people they should not be exiling."\par
"Very true," Matthew said.  He had nervously kept up with Mark, who had gone up to the first person he saw.  Not surprisingly, Mark was unsure of what to do next.  Mark stared silently at the man, his mouth working with all sorts of things he might say.\par
"Matthew Kikker," Matthew introduced himself.\par
"Amram Boom," he replied. \par
"Mark Kikker," Mark replied. \par
"We have just arrived. I was dis-fellowshipped in Michigan, so we came here. It is a little strange - going from a separatist settlement to, to whatever this is."\par
"We are to be a lighthouse, not a greenhouse, in the world, but not of it. Not separatist.  How can we share the Gospel if we are not around those in need of it? While it is good to live with brethren, there is also that entire side to things.  You will find a lot of people are not living or working here who have ties - it is certainly not a closed Epper colony.  There is an Epper settlement forming north of here, but I do not know that they are open now to more people joining them."\par
  \par
Mark and Matthew met the same statement from everyone they talked to.  So a week later Mark received the keys to the machine shop.  Matthew would be dropping him off in the morning and picking him up in the evening.  Matthew was working now at Nicholls Pharmacy doing administrative tasks to relieve the pharmacist until his Missouri license was issued. It should have been only another week or so, he hoped. \par
It took six men to wrestle the kiln into the exact place where Mark wanted it.  Then came the wait for the electrical utility to come to hook it up. That had been part of the agreement. \par
Matthew swept the place out with a new floor broom and looked at the neatly arranged bags of clay, the kiln and the wheel. Mark's toolbox was open and he was sitting on the floor, carving a clay piece.  \par
"You need a chair and a table," Mark told him. "What is that?"\par
"Another frog," Mark said. He turned it so that was clear. The frog was cross-eyed and its tongue was out. \par
"That is funny," Matthew told him, "I suppose if we are not separatists we can make funny things."\par
"I cannot use the wheel until I get a chair,"Mark told him,"You are right about that."\par
Mark slowly got up and got on his crutches.  Matthew tried to help him but he shook him off.\par
"Thanks for helping me, but I feel stronger."\par
"I think you are. This is amazing."\par
"I wonder if that Joyce Dunbar has a chair you can have, and a table, and shelves."\par
"Might as well place an order," Mark said.\par
There was a knock at the door.  It was the Dunbar family, and she had a rolling office chair.\par
"I was thinking you could use this," she said,"So here it is."\par
"We were just talking about that-"\par
"Amazing how that works sometimes," she said.\par
There were introductions.\par
"Mama, look a the frogs!"\par
There were a number of unfired clay frogs on the floor, most with goofy expressions.\par
"How funny," she said.\par
"You can probably sell those," said her husband. "Well, I am with the paper, and I think I will write an article on this building reopening.  How about a nice picture of a frog?"\par
\par
Mark had the article framed and put in the front office-store area, which now had shelves full of frog plates, frog planters, frog cups and frog planters.  There were garden frogs to go in the garden and there were ornamental frogs of fine porcelein. Each was hand-made and unique.  Soon  Mark acquired an apprentice, John, whose family was living in Nicholls. He handled customer orders, and the problem soon was that Mark could not make frogs fast enough.  He raised the prices on everything so that he could keep up with the demand.  Someone else was talking about going into the frog-pot craze.\par
"You need to lower your prices and make more frogs."\par
"But how?" he asked. \par
"Pressure casting.  You make a master item and then a mold is made.  More than one mold, in fact, from the master casting, and items are made over and over again. It is called mass production."\par
"Back in Michigan we made everything individually, never with mass production."\par
"Times change.  I will see what I can do.  I will get some books from the library."\par
Amram Boom made the first pressure caster, which would take a mold and squeeze all the air out of the clay.  A perfect copy would be formed.  Then it could be fired.\par
They started off with a plate.  Mark took his time, making the plate beautiful.  They made a casting using the techniques John found.  Then John made a mold while Mark worked on a second item, and then in went the clay, out came the copy, and they fired it.  At first at least one item a day exploded from air pockets, breaking nearby items, but they learned. \par
The mass-produced plates sold well, costing a little more than a normal plate, but they were beautiful.  Cups and frogs followed, and they hired Sylvia to take orders and sell from the office.\par
"These are very beautiful," the representative of a major retailer said. "We would like to sell them for you, in fact your whole line.  We want to see your books to establish a fair price and make sure our customers are getting a good deal."\par
"Books?"\par
"Accounts. Ledgers.  You know, that accounting stuff. I am not an accountant."\par
"Well, here is our financial department," Mark said, and led him out into the shop and made a sharp right turn.  There was a pile of cash, in fact a rather large pile of cash, sitting on the floor.\par
"We don't really keep track," they explained. "Ten percent of what comes in goes to God, and we take what we need."\par
The representative was stunned. Speechless.\par
"You will have to pay taxes," he finally said. "And there are statements. You must have invoices. Order forms.  All kinds of paperwork.  I strongly urge you to get an accountant. If you want to do business with anyone - in fact, if you want to be in business - you need one. And someone to manage the business."\par
"God will send us one if we need one," Mark said, smiling. \par
"I suppose so. But that's not how, this is not how, business is done. Please have your paperwork in order.  That is something that you badly need to do if you want to work with us.  We need accurate orders, invoices, billing - everything.  There have been complaints about incorrect orders.  You can and must do better. I am sure you can. I am sorry to be so critical, but that is the way it is.  I think we can do a great deal of business together and make a lot of money - there is great potential here - but there need to be some changes made.  How much would you say your business is worth?"\par
"Worth?"\par
"If you were to sell it.  How much do you have in assets?"\par
"Assets?"\par
"See what I mean? This information is important if you are to run a business."\par
\par
\par
"What is an accountant?"  Mark asked his brother, who suddenly wished he had been there. \par
"Someone who watches your money.  There is one here in Nicholls who keeps the books for the pharmacy."\par
"It has never gone anywhere," Mark pointed out. "The Good Lord has taken care of it."\par
"Yes, but Caesar wants his cut."   It took thirty minutes to explain to Mark that we were not under the Roman Empire.  Matthew was still not sure he had gotten through at the end of it.\par
\par
The accountant was tall and big-boned, with grey hair and a fine Roman nose. He carried a briefcase and a card table and a folding chair with him, which contrasted with his grey pinstriped suit.  Somehow he did it with dignity as he put down the table.\par
"Hello, Sylvia," he said to her, and smiled.\par
"Hello, Mr. Andersen," she replied. "Let me help you with that. They're out back."\par
"I heard  it was like this, but I did not believe it," the accountant explained to John, Matthew  and Mark, and gave an unexpected,  high-pitched "hee-hee".  He looked at the pile of cash, over a foot high and inhabiting an area of several square feet, with bills wandering out of that.  He set up his card table and chair.  "We'll have to organize all this and get it to the bank. Please watch me - I shouldn't be doing this alone. Hee-hee!"  Mark asked  John to watch and went back to his wheel. John stood and watched Mr. Andersen pull the bills out of the pile on the floor  and make  neat piles of ones, fives, tens, twenties, fifties, one hundred dollar bills on his table. He recounted it and looked at the still large pile on the floor, in which more bills could be hidden. "One step at a time."\par
He pulled a cloth-covered book, longer than it was tall, out of his briefcase and showed it to John.  Mark was close enough that he could hear.\par
"Gentlemen, this is a ledger.  You record all your debits and credits - that is to say, your outgo and your income. You need that to know how your business is doing, and also the government will want to know, as well as your tax preparer. You do have a tax preparer? No? One step at a time."\par
He showed John how he was counting out the money, keeping a running total.\par
He opened his ledger and carefully wrote, cash $10,482.00, on the first line and showed it to the men.  He explained  that it needed to go into the bank. They had never had anything to do with a bank on the Epper settlement or since coming here, and the accountant spent a long time explaining banking and money to them. In Nicholls everything was done with cash, so it had never been a problem.  At intervals they nodded blankly. He insisted they sign a receipt that that this was the money.  He had an armored truck take himself to the bank with this money and Mark and Matthew went in their truck.  John stayed behind to watch the money.  Watch it do what, he wondered. \par
 It was a first for Mark to go to a bank, but Matthew had been to a bank before, if only to cash his paychecks. The banker and Mr. Andersen knew each other and they watched the accountant give the banker the money.  They got a piece of paper back with "Cash Deposit $20,482.00" written on it.   They opened a checking account and the accountant and the banker helped them open several other accounts as well. Mark was pleased. He had a checking account and a savings account, whatever those were, and some starter checks, whatever those were.  He looked at them and frowned, because they seemed to be all blank. What good was that? Mr. Andersen said he would learn.  Mark wanted to fill them out then and there, but they told him to wait.\par
 It took the accountant three more trips to the bank to get all the cash into the bank, with the exception of a small box.  The money in it had its own page in the cloth-bound ledger, its own account.\par
"Why do they call it petty cash?' Mark said.  "It's for small purchases? The cash looks as big as the other cash."\par
Mr. Andersen found himself there twice a week,   Tuesday afternoons and Friday morning, writing checks and keeping the books.  He explained that they needed someone to deal with this on a full time basis.  Now that they were accepting checks, they were making even more money. He was an accountant, and he would be overcharging them when he was working as a bookkeeper.  He also had other clients. \par
 Sylvia looked grim when Mr. Andersen tried to explain to her how to record information so that the books could be kept correct.  Then he started finding discrepencies - she could not enter checks correctly nor count money correctly.  The petty cash drawer and its books were always too high or too short.  It wasn't stealing but simple incompetence.  He explained this to Matthew and Mark, who looked grimmer.  She had come highly recommended, but then not as someone to take care of the records.  Just someone to answer the phone.  They would have to do something about this. \par
\b Norman \b0\par
Norman sat in the Nicholls Diner nursing a cup of java.  They didn't call it that, now, and over the years it had had a number of different names, but it was the same place, one of the eternal things, one of the reasons he had moved back here. Home.  After two years  enlisted, four years at Annapolis, and eleven years in the Corps as an officer, he was back home.  No longer in Nam. No longer in the 295TH SUPPLY/ENGINEERS. No more meet and greet, making sure supplies and Marines arrived and departed as expected. Prop blast was a thing of the past.  And Nicholls was as far as you could get from a beach or a rocket attack in the middle of the night.  The only airplanes were little Cessnas at the little field, and few of those: there was talk of closing the airstrip due to lack of use.  No C-130s. No Hueys.  No military presence.  Nonetheless he had no plans to go and look at it the airstrip, open or closed.  He had no plans, except to come up with a plan.  \par
"More?" the waitress, Cathi,  was a sweet young thing, the daughter of the proprietor. The proprietor was his second cousin one way and his third and fourth cousin in other ways.   Cathi looked perky, the poster girl for what is right about the human race having two sexes.  The only thing out of place was the 30 cal in a holster behind her back. This was Nicholls, and Norman had picked up a Colt, ammo and holster first thing on returning, even before he went to see his folks. Dad took it personally that his son had never seen combat but had been in Logistics. Real Marines saw combat and were enlisted, and not in that order.  Dad never got over the fact that his son was an officer and rear echelon to boot.  There was a coldness there, even though Dad had admired the officers he had known who had led him on Guadalcanal and Tarawa. Home being cold, Norman had just put money down on an apartment right above the restaurant.\par
He shook his head. "The coffee is good but I am at my limit. I've told people all over the world how good the coffee is here."\par
She smiled. "Thanks. Mother makes it, the way Grandmother taught her. I think we've been making coffee that way forever."  She floated off.  She was too young. Focus. Cathi was 16 and some kind of relative, he reminded himself. Her boyfriend was planning on going into the Marines, like a lot of young men here. She went to Nicholls High School. Her parents owned the place, which they had inherited from her grandparents, and her great-grandparents had built it when Main Street was rebuilt during the 1920s.  Everything had been wood before then. She had several ancestors who had fought for the South in the Civil War as Marines. And several who had fought for the north. They had moved here to build a place where they could live without animosity, in the bitterness after the Civil War.  She was related to the Muellers.  Their Ranch was now someone's property and there were people out there.  He used to sneak out there with his buddies - everyone did in high school - and look for Indian treasure.  They never found any.  And there was the infamous Snake Woods, which of course drew attention.  Just like when he was a kid, groups of teenagers would go out there to see if they could spot the snakes.  And they did. About once every five years or so someone would get too close and get bit and die, just like when he was a kid. She had been out there twice.  There were a bunch of people on the land now, but not where the snakes were, which made it harder to go snake looking. But teenagers still did it.\par
Nicholls was the same.\par
Day one of retirement. Getting here had not been retirement but now he had arrived. He breathed in and out.  He looked down at his shoes and wondered if he would every shine them again.  Probably.  The Marine was deep in him, both from this town and what the Corps had demanded. In his five years at Cam Ranh Bay he had upheld the highest standards of the Corps in respect to uniform and had expected the same of his men.  He'd been stateside for two years onboard Camp Johnson training young logistics officers and enlistees and some draftees at the Corps' Combat Service Support School.  Nam still seemed close. The  North Carolina coast, on a military facility, never felt like he really had left Nam, especially in the summer.  But now...\par
Main Street had not changed. Main Street never would. He nodded at fellow vets as he walked down the street. The gunshop was the same. He turned south on Second, past the high school on his left, and found the courthouse square in another block, just as had been expected.  Here was the Water Department, still the same, and the \i Nicholls Gazette\i0 , with the same dark green half-curtains on the lower half of the windows.  Nicholls Five and Ten.  There were a few more monuments around the lawn, behind a new black wrought-iron fence.  That would take time to look at.  There was Nicholls Plumbing Supply.  Whatever had happened to Pruitt's?  He turned around and walked five blocks north, to South Spruce.  For reasons lost in time in was South Spruce, though there was no North Spruce. Streets south of Main were named for presidents and streets north for trees, except for three, now Tarawa, Guadalcanal and Iwo Jima, their old names now forgotten.  On the east end Spruce was still commercial to heavy industrial.  Norman remembered sweeping the place for old man Pruitt.  The old man had guided him through the pangs of adolescence and his first crush and had given him good advice. Norman had swept his floors after school and before sports practice.  Norman had learned a love of order and precision from him, and that had led to his career in Logistics. Pruitt had been disappointed that he had never shown much interest in metal forming, drilling, cutting or finishing. No one had. Sad, because the man had had a lot to teach people. But never any students. Ever.\par
Here it was, but it was now a ceramics shop. Or studio. Hippies? 'Kikker's Frog Pottery Factury'.  He disliked misspellings. Sloppy. And on the sign. Shame on them.\par
Nathan frowned and went in. How bad could it be?  Frogs.  Frogs everywhere: plates, planters, platters, statues, cups, glasses, tea cups, saucers, vases,  Many of them had crossed eyes and their tongues were hanging out. Some were holding signs that were supposed to be amusing, he supposed. This one had a Royals hat and and was holding a sign: 'I Like Fly Balls'. Supposedly clever.   What was this? Freaking frog freaks. Not exactly Marine. Not Nicholls. A bunch of degenerate hippies had taken over Pruitt's, it seemed. \par
There was a teenaged boy standing there, slouching rather, shirt out, unshaven, long hair dirty and not particularly combed,  facing a girl behind the counter. They were whispering.  She looked around the boy and saw Norman.\par
"Can I help you?"  She was barely out of high school, undoubtably a local. Long blond hair parted in the middle. Modest denim shirt. No jewelry. Bright red fingernails. Minimal facepaint.   She read him as a Marine, from his posture, his sharp-creased trousers (even though they were not uniform), and his haircut.  She looked relieved that he had come in. The boy turned.  He had a sour, spoiled, lazy look of defiance.  Nathan remembered guys like that from his youth, who neither went into the military or college but just hung around.  Since the few jobs almost all went to vets, these types were all unemployed. Drifters. He looked the type.  Mostly they would drift away, not coming back.  The town was not too welcoming to them. Was Pruitt's now a drifter hangout? Great. Just great. Or the whole town a punk paradise?\par
"Just looking. I used to sweep this building for Mr. Pruitt," Norman offered."When I was a teenager, before the Marines. I just retired. From a long and honorable service to our country." That was, of course, pointed at the slacker.\par
The boy's face indicated this was boring. Norman resisted the urge to grab him by his eyebrow ring and twist it. There was just something almost unholy about him being in Pruitt's.  \par
"I swept this building a long time ago."  Norman continued.  The youth shrugged and turned to face the girl again. She looked annoyed  and then turned her eyes to Norman. \par
"Mind if I look around? I just got back - I haven't been to Nicholls in a very long time. I spent leave in other places, figuring Nicholls would always be here."\par
"I don't think there is a problem.  Do you know Mark?"\par
"Mark?"\par
"Mark Kikker, the potter. He makes this stuff. I just sell it. That's why I sit here." \par
"No, I don't know him.  Kikker's the name?  I thought it was a misspelling. Sounds Dutch. Is he an Epper?"\par
"You'll have to ask him. I never see him at Mass, but there are  a lot of people. I'm Catholic, not a Protestant." \par
"I see.  Well, I was raised in the Epper Church here."\par
"Uh-huh. Let me see if Mark minds you back there. Sales people go back there all the time.  I don't think he'll mind.  Let me see if he is available. Please wait right here."\par
The youth turned with a sneer.  Norman's dislike deepened. \par
"Marine, huh?"\par
"You got a problem with that?"  Norm said, controlling it. \par
The youth stepped back. "No, man. No. Most of the people here are Marines.  Most of my family.  No problem at all."\par
There was silence until the girl returned.\par
\par
Norman was not surprised to find the owner at a potter's wheel. He was more surprised to find Mark was in his early twenties.  John was a big guy, even younger, who did all the heavy lifting for him. They shook hands all around.\par
They talked. It turned into a long conversation.  Norman was looking for something to do, some reason to stay in Nicholls, and his logistics experience could come in very handy in helping the business be a business.  He took an instant liking to Mark and it was mutual.\par
Mark needed a business manager, and the offer was made and accepted right then and there. John and Sylvia, who tended the shop and took orders over the phone, and the accountant would work for Norman.  He was surprised by Mark's trust of him. Mark basically gave him all the responsibities.  Mark just wanted to make frogs, which was fine, but he was also the boss.\par
John was sent out front to tell Sylvia to come back for a minute, and Mark told her. She was surprised, but nodded.   Norm went up front to look at it again more closely, with more possessive eyes.\par
The youth who had been there before was still there. It was made clear to him in no uncertain terms that this was not a place to loiter.  He left.\par
"Geez. He lives in Nicholls, too," Sylvia told Norman.  The phone rang.  It was an order for 200 plates. Sylvia wrote it down on a scrap of paper:"200 Plates - Ferguson" and Norman watched as she took it back and gave it to John, who told it to Mark.  Mark told John to give it to Norman to handle.\par
"Do we have 200 plates in stock?" No one knew. "Who is Ferguson?" They had ordered before, and they would pick up the plates.  How much clay and other supplies were in inventory? No one knew.  How much did they use in a day? That varied. Some days all John did was pack stuff up. On those days Mark would work on figurines or new patterns, and would take all day on some small item sometimes. Sometimes John would run batches of plates through the kiln. Sometimes the kiln was not used for several days.\par
There were no records, no employment applications on Sylvia or John, no insurance, nothing. Norman had to explain the idea of a salary to Mark, who thought that simply giving people money when they needed it was enough and there was no point in being so formal about it. Mark had never seen money before coming to Nicholls and he tended to just ignore it.\par
Norman spent a week straightening out the building inspection, fire inspection, business license, meeting with the accountant and going over the books to date before he bothered with the operational chaos.  Kikker Pottery had an amazing amount of cash just sitting there in the bank, despite Mark's wllingness to give John and Sylvia whatever they asked for. They were both fairly restrained in their spending, and neither had really taken advantage of Mark.\par
The fourth quarter's taxes were coming up, and Norman finally convinced Mark not to just throw away receipts when a delivery was ordered or made.  Norman spent time on the phone with suppliers asking for their records, which they were happy to provide.  He spent time trying to verify that the records they sent were correct, but it was pretty hopeless.  \par
Norman hired three people.  Sylvia quit because she didn't like the new paperwork.  She was replaced by Jenny to answer the phone and take orders, Paul the bookkeeper to track all the paperwork and get it to the accountant, and  Pete to pack and ship and accept shipments. Norman had known Pete in Nam as a hard and honest worker. He'd also been his supervisor there and Norman knew he was getting out, and found him.  Pete was glad of the job. \par
Ah, paperwork.  Norman now had an office with rows of file cabinets built on the new mezzanine.  He loved paperwork. Soon everything was in order and running smoothly. There was a budget, insurance, permits on file, invoices, bills, basically everything in its neat little corner, and none of it subject to a rocket attack or a sapper.  Peace and quiet. \par
Norman was enjoying his morning coffee at the Diner one morning.  There was a conversation he could not help overhearing on what was happening at Pruitt's. Someone thought it should be a machine shop, or that those people should be sent packing. \par
"Norman, you are working there, right?" someone asked him.  There was a silence.\par
"Yes, I am managing the business.  Mark Kikker is a fine young man."\par
"I don't know that he shouldn't leave.  A pottery factory? Come on, and he was never in the Corps. And those are people from Profim-s property. It just doesn't sit right."  There were some murmurs of approval. "Now you tell him to think about packing up and leaving and letting  Nicholls be Nicholls."\par
Norman knew what the town could be like. "I'm  Nicholls born, and I manage the place. And you know I retired from the Corps. They pay their taxes and put their money in the bank here, just like anyone else."\par
"Well, it just seems kind of funny, is all. Norman, are you sure you want to be mixed up in this?"\par
He was sure, and said so, and that ended the discussion.  But not some looks he got. \par
\par
That Wednesday morning Norman enjoyed walking from the church to Pruitt's, as he and everyone else still called the Frog Factory.  It was spring, one of the first warm spells they had had, and the daffodils and tulips were pushing up, ready for spring.  Birds were singing and he thought about the study. That early-spring smell of plants coming out of winter sleep was in the air.  Elder  Bob had led the Wednesday morning group in an inductive study on Acts 2:43-47.  They had gotten into a discussion of what an ideal church looked like, and then what an ideal society would look like, and how the church and the society should interrelate.  "Neither should dominate the other, but the church is to be leaven in the society," was one of the things he had said.  Nicholls was founded as a kind of utopia, the church itself was from a background of settlements, each of which aspired to be an ideal community.  Now the church was in a town, and then there was what was happening out on Profim's property.  They seemed to be a refuge from all these utopias. He'd related his earlier conversation a few days before at the Diner.  People were wondering about the Frog Factory, but that was all anyone had heard. Was the Frog Factory an ideal society? How did it function as a community? He thought about it.\par
At Third and Spruce he smiled, because the pavement was torn up and there were traffic cones and barrels and construction signs, and Nicholls Public Works was on the job.  When he had been a boy there had been a water main break here that had to be repeatedly fixed. They had ripped out the line and replaced it, put in all sorts of fancy gravel bedding, but no matter what, it would leak.  They were still trying to fix the Spruce Spring, as people called it.\par
Norman nodded to Chris and Matthew, two of the workers who were also members of the Epper church.  Why did it take ten people to work on this, though, he wondered. One guy was shoveling and the rest were watching.  Public works crews were like this the world over, he figured.\par
He stopped smiling when he came to Kikker's.  The front door had been kicked in. He looked at it for a second and listened.  It was quiet inside.  He pushed open the door and listened again. It was empty-sounding, but he pulled out his revolver and went in cautiously as he had been trained to clear a building in the Marines.  No squad. He was very aware of being alone.\par
It was clear.  But between closing last night and now someone had smashed every piece of pottery on hand, including the master molds and what Mark had been actively working on.  Pieces were scattered across the floor and some had been smashed into the floor.   His file cabinets had been dumped and papers were all over the floor.  Fabric was ripped on the seat in the display area and in his office.  The toilet and sink had been broken, probably with a sledge hammer,  and water was running from the broken pipes.  The gas line to the furnace was fine, however.  It looked like they had tried to break windows by throwing pottery at them, but the windows were too high or maybe they couldn't throw that hard. There was a hole in the side of the kiln and the kiln door had been beaten off its hinges.\par
He went outside and looked both ways. The only place open yet was Saul's Trucking across the street.   Norman called the police from there while keeping one eye on Pruitt's. "Sorry, I hadn't noticed," Saul said.  Saul seldom noticed anything and was probably telling the truth. He usually came to work from the alley side and didn't go to the front of the building all that often, except to lock and unlock the front door when the office people came in. They hadn't yet. \par
Matthew and Mark pulled up while Norman was talking to the officers.  The older of the two, Dan, was a friend of Norman's from high school.  He and Norman reminisced while Mike filled out the paperwork.  They had already looked through the building and taken pictures and were now sitting in the patrol car.  Dan would glance over at Mike's work from time to time and point and comment. When Matt pulled over and got out, both cops got out and approached them. This being Nicholls, everyone knew everyone. Crime was rare and a break-in almost unheard of.  Saul and several other people joined the circle and they talked for a few minutes.  "If you will excuse us," Dan  said to Saul and the others, and they left.  Norman, Matthew and Mark learned that there were clear prints they had found on the sledgehammer's handle.  It had been found somewhere in the building.\par
 "There's been some wondering about the new business in town," Dan said, "just talk."\par
"I've heard one or two things, too," Matthew said.\par
"So have I," Norman said.\par
"Anything specific?" Dan wanted to know. But no one had anything specific in mind, or anyone.  "The good thing about so many serving, I mean one good thing, is we have a whole bunch of fingerprints."\par
\par
Later that day Norman was eating lunch at the diner.  The man who had made the remarks that other morning came up and sat down across from him. "I heard," he said. "I hope nothing I said prompted this. It's a shame.  That business is doing well and the town should support this. I am going to back the business and go buy myself a frog or two."\par
Norman smiled. "Thanks. But everything is smashed and the kiln needs some fixing.  Sort of dead in the water right now."\par
"This town should take care of their own.  This is an attack on everyone in Nicholls."\par
"Thanks."\par
\par
Mark had been sitting on the shop floor since early morning, staring at ripped bags of clay, his broken wheel, his broken kiln.  He heard Norman return.\par
"Norman?" he called,"Please come back here."\par
Norman did.  He expected to find Mark upset.\par
"I am so sorry, Mark -"\par
"The Lord gives and the Lord takes. Blessed be the name of the Lord." Mark replied. "God is good. I know who, I don't need to know the how or the why.  God will bring good out of this. I know it.  Maybe we can think about what we are doing and what changes we need to make."\par
"How about an alarm system? A steel door?"  \par
"I think we should have steel doors front and back.  And an alarm system."\par
"Probably they will catch whoever did this."\par
"Fingerprints?"\par
"Yes.  But I have been thinking."\par
"About making more frogs?"\par
"No.  I'm thinking about making more plates again, and ceramics. But I am thinking we should make other things. I don't want to make frogs anymore. I am tired of them.  Matthew asked me the other day about the mortar and pestle - there is a ceramic one at the pharmacy, and he brought it home and showed it to me - and asked me if I could make one.  And he has a magazine that talks about medical ceramics.  There is an ad from someone looking to find someone who can make ceramic devices for implants."\par
"Think you could do it?"\par
"It's worth a shot."\par
"I haven't heard you talk like that before."\par
"I'm learning.  The world is bigger every day."\par
 \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
}
 