{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 May 20, 1978 11:00 AM Refuge City\b0\par
 Luke was already disliking the little man across the table from him. Squirt insisted on filling out the form himself because he was "tired of seeing it done wrong."  Who parts their hair in the middle and wears a purple-spotted bow tie and and a vest with a little watch on a chain? Or  round glasses that looked like the bottoms of  two canning jars? And fills out a form for someone else?   This was absurd. He'd walked through the cattle gate past the John 3:16 sign to the trailer with a sign that said  'Office: Refuge City, USA', entered, and had been told he had to see this guy before he did anything else. The little guy looked like he had stepped out of a children's book, one with goofy pictures. He didn't even have a desk, just a folding table in his "office", which was the smallest bedreoom in the trailer. On the wall beside him was a poster that said "All things are possible for those who believe." Well, this was unbelievable. To get here he had been kicked out of his home and had gotten mouthy with the railroad dorks. He was still sore.  Who would have thought there were so many really rude people in the world as he had run into?  The world seemed full of dorks, jerk-faces and weirdos.  And this guy was the cherry on top of the fruitcake. \par
Luke had leaned on the doorframe and crossed his arms. "I am supposed to see you, I guess." He'd looked back at the young and pretty woman named CJ, but she was busy now, frowning in concentration at the papers on her desk.  It was a big old gun-metal grey desk. How had they gotten it through the trailer door? But that was neither here nor there. " Anyway the door says 'Intake Officer', whatever that means."\par
The little man had blinked slowly and then carefully put the papers he had been working on in a neat pile and meticulously laid the pile on one corner of the table, face down, and then adjusted it so the edges were the same distance from the table edge everywhere.  Then he turned to his file cabinet and carefully selected various papers,  squared them carefully on the table, and pounded them once across the bottom and once on the side.  He looked at them, frowned, and tapped them again.  Then he laid the neat pile carefully on the table in front of him on an exact spot, frowned it and moved it half an inch away from him and then a quarter inch to the left.  Only then did he politely ask Luke to sit on the folding chair across the table from him.  Just a thin folding card table and two chairs. It came forcefully into Luke's mind that somewhere in the world were two other chairs that made up the set. Maybe CJ had one?  Why was he thinking that? On the table a green ceramic frog-shaped pencil holder full of pens and pencils and scissors had a half-closed look as if it knew why. The frog reminded him suddenly and painfully of Mark, his brother, who was supposed to be around here.  Aside from these things, the table was bare. Out the window behind four-eyes the sky was a pale colorless blue.  Not the only colorless thing. \par
Luke had sat, maybe a little too hard for a delicate metal chair, which groaned but supported him.  The little man paused and gave Luke a forced smile, the most artificial one that Luke could imagine. Luke wanted to slap it off his face. He realized he was returning a smile with anger, and composed his face into what he hoped was emotionally neutral.  \par
"You are planning to join us? For how long?" the little man's face was completely blank.  Not welcoming, not at all encouraging. Luke's heart sank.  This was the one place he could go. Things were not looking promising here, either. He nodded. What a rotten welcome. The blank face was meticulously clean-shaven. Even his nose hairs were trimmed back.  That made Luke want to rip the rest out by the roots somehow.  But everything about the little man was irritating. His thick beard was completely clean-shaven. Perfectly shaven.  The stubble flush with the face, a uniform grey, again like a children's cartoon.  Maybe the dwarf shaved every hour on the hour.   What choice did Luke have? Would this work out? He knew what it meant to be in an Epper settlement, both the good and the bad.  It would be better here.  He nodded, not trusting himself to speak.\par
"Not a visit.  Permanent. Moving here."\par
"Your name, again, please?"\par
"You must not have been listening. I didn't give it. Luke. L-U-C-A-S. Kikker. K-I-K-K-E-R."\par
The little man slowly and carefully wrote it, each letter marvellously perfect, like out of a first-graders' alphabet textbook and they went to the next line. The pen hovered carefully over the space above the next line.  His fingernails were perfect.  Luke had never seen anything like them - exactly a sixteenth-inch long, he guessed, all of them. Some women took care of their nails like that, he had heard. The hands looked weak and soft. Luke looked down at his own: calloused, rough, with little scabs on the first two knuckles of both hands from that discussion with the railroad people.  Had this guy ever gone outside?  Who was this guy anyway?  Luke thought of part of the statement read against him back home ten minutes before he was gone: "...constantly bucking authority and refractory, fractious, unwilling to submit to correction..."  Whatever 'fractious' meant.  They could take their stupid word and stuff it. This time would be different. He tried to avoid thoughts of tearing up the form, ramming it down the dit's throat and walking out, never to return. Walk out where, though? Would the people there, if there was a there,  be any better? Probably not.  He needed to fix his people problems here. Hopefully he would never see Mr. Perfect Appearance after today. He hoped he was not in charge of anything beyond "Intake".  O Lord, he prayed inwardly, mercy on me.\par
"Place of birth?"  Some Eppers, Luke had been told, believed that the display of emotions was a sign of a lack of self control and emotional immaturity. Was this guy one of them? He could have been a machine. A perfectly groomed machine.  Luke had not seen any other men here. Were they all la-de-da? Or was this bird sick or something? Maybe just soft. Suited for a king's palace with soft clothing. \i Malakos\i0 .\par
"St. Paul's Settlement, Clare County, Michigan."  They had thrown him out with just the clothes on his back. Ten minutes before they called him in to talk,  he had thought he would live the rest of his life there.  He had to walk out. Not even a ride. No time to say goodbye to family or friends or Dusty.  Just, Go. Unfair. Not that he had wanted to be around them, not after that. How could anyone call that following Christ? The only family living that he could talk to was here. Matthew and Mark were living somewhere here, and there was nowhere else to go.  His uncles, aunts and cousins and his sister would support the decision the settlement had made.  He could not go to any settlements the people at St. Paul's traded with. Worse, all Epper settlements would support it, given the grounds. He was completely cut off and completely separated. The painful sense of isolation was now just  dull but every present. It flared up now and again.  Much \i toska\i0 , as they said back home. Anguish of soul, anguish of soul.  That, and he was tired and hurt and hungry. He'd eaten yesterday up in Harrisonville by digging through the dumpster behind a restaurant. Nothing since. When he'd walked through Nicholls people watched him, all the way from the Welcome to Nicholls sign to the last house, and he'd had no chance to go dumpster-dining. Not friendly looks, either.\par
The little man looked up at him and peered through his thick glasses reproachfully. This little self-important man was the Intake Officer  and Luke had to sit through this form-filling. Pompous title.  He'd been to brusque at the front desk, he figured, and so the young lady, CJ something, had been polite but cold. Maybe he had been rude, he didn't know, and after that trip who wouldn't be? What else could he do? Maybe he had blown it already.\par
"I only need the state. Michigan, you said?"\par
"I gave you more information than you need then. Is that a problem?"\par
"No, it's not.  Let's get through this form, shall we? Cooperation is important.  The sooner we do so the sooner you can -  sooner is better for both of us.  Let us waste not a minute of the time God has given us as stewards.  The accounting will surely come."\par
Luke breathed deeply. He hoped it didn't show his frustration and resentment at the little man.  He was, Luke suddenly realized, not that much older than Luke.  He just acted and looked like he was senile. Or like a little lap dog. Maybe a Yorkshire terrier well-groomed by a woman keeper.  There was a fad of them among certain of the elder Epper women, who would spend hours washing and combing their little toy dogs, so he had heard. Luke smiled to himself. He imagined the little man had a huge and domineering wife who spent hours washing and combing him. A pampered little poodle was in front of him. \par
"Kikker is Dutch, but isn't St. Paul's Russian Epper?"\par
"What? Oh, yeah, it is.  But there are a lot of Dutch there.  Two settlements merged a long time ago. A Dutch and a Russian.  So you could say it is either."   Luke tried a smile. Maybe this had been an attempt at warmth? Giving a hoot about a fellow human being?\par
The little man did not reply. In the silence he picked up the pile of papers on the corner of the desk and made sure they were all perfectly straight, then laid them down meticulously and ran his finger along the edges to be sure they were all flush and neat.  Luke wanted to push them off and see them flutter over the floor. \par
"It is a long way from Michigan to here. I gather it was a difficult journey both physically and emptionally."\par
"Tell me about it. I hitch hiked part way and rode the railroad part way. I had a little -  philosophical disagreement - with the railroad police and after than no one wanted to give me a ride, and I didn't want to get caught on a train again."  He doubted the little guy had ever done anything half like it. It took \par
"I see." the little man peered at him through those glasses.  It was impossible to tell what his face said, if it said anything, and there was no emotion in his voice. Luke was just material to be processed and it didn't matter what he said. He was just supposed to fill out the form, or have the form filled out. It was unfair. \par
This was stupid.  The little fellow moved slowly and cautiously. Like a box turtle crossing the road more than a yippy little poodle.   There were more slow questions and Luke's answers had to be slow as well as the turtle wrote them down and kept insisting he repeat answers one word at a time.  Luke still ached all over.  He had hitchhiked and ridden railroad cars all the way down here from Michigan. How could he still be sore from the "incentives" those railroad goons had given him to never ride the rails again, even through that was three days ago?  He was big and tough-looking and mean-looking to begin with, weathered from being outside so much, and so he looked older, and that had kept him from more trouble.  But not out of all of it.  And he had spent two nights in jails after being picked up for questioning - just sleeping there, out of compassion by the officer, with a meal and a "get out of town".  Several nights burrowed into hay on farms against the chill of a May night, too. But he was one tough Epper, he would tell anyone who asked.  No one would dare, though. \par
"St. Paul's Settlement in Clare County, Michigan is a closed settlement, is it not?  I believe some people here are from there."\par
"My brothers are here, I think.  That's why I came. \i Avos'\i0 , you know. Same name as mine: Kikker.  Matthew and Mark."\par
 This was ignored.  "Are you expecting Christ to come back at any second?" The turtle blinked like a helpless little creature seeing daylight for the first time.  He had moved on to the next question. Once again the tip of his pen hovered, ready to write, now just above a checkbox.\par
This was odd, and out of the blue. "Christ will come back someday. But I don't know when. No one knows the day or the hour. Everybody knows that. It could be today, for all I know."\par
 "We have some folk here who think today is the day, or tomorrow. Anyway they go out at dawn and sing a hymn, dressed in white robes.  There is a very small rise of ground they go to and face east."\par
"Really? A kind of \i yurodivy\i0 , I suppose."\par
"Yes. You will find a wide range of beliefs - theological situations - doctrinal aspects - here."  Luke thought about asking him what was wrong with a guy who parted his hair like that and kept his nails like that.  But he decided not to.  He was trying to get along.  He always tried to get along, even if the world was full of jerk-face retards.  But what did that mean: 'a wide range of beliefs here'? Didn't all Eppers believe the same thing, passed down directly and faithfully from the apostles from Christ Himself?  The faith he had learned at St. Paul's? But Matthew had been thrown out for believing otherwise, and had come here. Now Luke himself was here, in this place that welcomed heretics and the outcast.  He himself was now one.  Not for heresy but because he didn't have the basic Christian character.  He felt off-balance suddenly. Anger was not a lasting motivation or a way to make his way in the world.  Things he had learned as a child were no longer to be taken for granted.  His surroundings were dizzily spinning around him.  The world spins, he thought, in more than one way. He was also hungry, as if he could forget. \par
"It takes all kinds to make a world." His stomach growled.  His last good meal had been in eastern Missouri a day ago.   Luke felt like ripping up the stupid forms. It would be a short reach and he was a lot faster and  than the turtle.  But to what end? What good had his anger done?  It had kept him alive and on top once or twice, but at what price?\par
The turtle was saying, "and some find out God called them here after they get here. Others find out they were never called here, even some who thought they clearly heard the Lord saying to come."\par
"Do you know my brothers?" \par
The turtle shook his head slowly and finally admitted, "We do not make a practice of discussing people who are not present. So, I am not at liberty to discuss them.  We need to do this form. God willing, you will learn of them."\par
The turtle looked up at the sound  of Luke's belly and glanced briefly at it. It was still growling. "My goodness," he muttered. "We also need to determine where you will fit in here. You will be presented a thirty day contract when you meet with an elder later, after your medical evaluation.  Our policy is to take in everyone who comes, but that does not mean there are no conditions.  I will try to make this fast, and then we will get you some food as soon as we can, probably right after the doctor looks at you.  We have some questions here regarding your capabilities. Have you gone to college?"  The pen hovered. \par
He had not.  He hadn't liked school. His parents had wanted him to go to college, but his grades weren't so good, so he didn't go.  He had managed to complete a key punch data entry course and punched cards for the settlement's computer system and had hauled large objects, such as clay bags for the potters, and handled hay, straw, bags of grain, and had moved furniture for people. He had spent weeks and months just moving hay bales around. And bags of grain.  Lumber.  Bags of clay.  Loading and unloading trucks by hand. Moving stuff to haylofts, whether by rope or by carrying it on his back up a ladder. Down again.  Basically anything big and heavy that needed carrying he got involved in.  As a young teen he had ridden between settlements, carrying news and delivering what could be held in saddlebags. But he had gotten too big for ponies, and Dusty had a new rider.  Sometimes he'd helped with deliveries to other settlements, which meant riding along in the truck and hefting, or just being there because he was mean-looking and people tended to not mess with him. He hoped to do unskilled labor that needed muscle here. He was asked more questions.   This was humiliating. He had no skills, no knowledge, no training they were interested in.  But an open Epper community believed strongly in finding a place for anyone coming and being welcome, if at all possible. He had been raised with \i stushevatsya\i0 : to not put himself forward, to not volunteer information, either, like that he could ride a horse or a bike or rollerskate. Horses and bikes and rollerskates did not come up, so he said nothing about them. He was angry muscle without hope or skills, unwanted by anyone.  He would take whatever they offered, he told himself, on whatever conditions they offered. He had no other place to go.  He had achieved his purpose in coming here. Sitting in this room. Talking to this turtle.  He had no further plans, hopes or dreams.  Those had been left in Michigan and there was no returning.\par
"I don't know what I would do here..." he started, but the turtle was clearly not paying attention. He was writing. \par
Contracts.  He was used to contracts.  Eppers used them at st. Paul's. You agreed to do something for them, and they agreed to do something for you. At home - his former home, he corrected himself - it was a certain number of hours of labor in exchange for a bed, sheets, medical care, food, and clothes.  Usually the better you did the better, or the more valuable your services were, the better the deal was. His had been at the extreme lower end. Of that he was very aware, and part of that had been his own issues.  That would change here, he told himself. He had left his anger behind, he told himself.\par
"Reason for leaving previous -"\par
"They threw me out." He did not add that almost everyone, he had been told, had complained about him.  They had sounded like him being gone would be the greatest thing ever.  It hurt.\par
"I see," the little man said with his typical lack of expression. Maybe it was stupidity. "That has been happening a lot lately. I myself was exiled by the Eppers. I am sorry it happened to you." He sounded like he was just saying it and didn't really care.  He might have been talking about the weather. But Luke thought he might have detected compassion in the turtle, which enraged Luke, as he did not want it from him. Luke was glad he didn't pursue the question.  He didn't really want to discuss it with the little man, yet he also felt like he was lying, and at the same time he felt a first sense that the turtle might actually be a human being with feelings and a brain and a life. "I have heard too many of these stories. You will excuse me if we stop there." That was fine with Luke.\par
"Well," said the turtle mildly, "To answer your statement about not knowing what you would do.  I cannot speak for the elders, of course.  There is the Honeybucket Brigade, and there are always opportunities at the quarry - breaking and hauling rock. You look like you could do that.  They cut stone for houses - and buildings - and break rock into gravel for drainage - it is so flat here that otherwise it would be damp. Shallow pools of smelly water everywhere unless we smooth them out or fill them in.  They are putting in utilities and putting what they call "a course of drainage rock" in the living areas, to get people above the water.  You will find raised gravel walkways here and there that we are expanding.  There is a layer of rock that we sell commercially for building finishes.  'Architectural limestone' they call it. I am not familiar with key punch data entry. I think that has to do with computers and we do not have one. I do not think we ever will.  I think those are a passing fad and people will value good hand-writing again. Computers are so much stuff as far as I am concerned. You will excuse me for my vehemence."  What vehemence? This bird could not push over an eraser. \par
Finally they were through and the little man handed him the papers and told him he needed to go to the medical clinic and get those bruises and cuts evaluated.  Someone would get him some food.  There was nothing else he could tell him: the papers would be processed and people would be in touch with him.  They would find him. The little man said his name was not important and not to worry about it, but Luke should keep his eyes on Jesus. If Luke needed him he knew where to find him, but he really doubted that would be necessary.  He had taken time out of his schedule for Luke and Luke should be grateful for the attention. They shook hands and Luke found himself out in the waiting room. He would have liked to say goodbye to CJ, but she was not there.  On folding chairs sat a quiet but sad-looking family of seven, a man and wife and five children all less than ten years old, the youngest under a nursing-blanket sucking noisily at Mama, a two-year old girl asleep on Papa's lap, the others leaning against Mama and Papa on each side, and the oldest on his own chair, reading at a book.  They looked up at him but he shook his head. Separately a man sat, a thin older gentleman, in dusty clothes with his head down, quietly praying.  And a rather fat babushka who kept looking at her watch, then at CJ's empty desk, then back at her watch. Her lower lip was thrust out in disapproval.   There was a sign that said "Poshlost Free Zone" on the wall.  \i Poshlost \i0 was a word some Eppers used for soulless materialism, shallowness, luxurious living. The whole trailer was spare that way and could not be called luxurious. It was clean and new looking but in no way extravagent or elegant.  Being against \i poshlost\i0  was to live before God \i - coram deo \i0 - as they say, in a way attentive to Him and with Him as the center of existence, around which all things revolve and depend on.  Poshlost demanded itself as the center, in defiance of God and rebellion.\par
 Opposite the Poshlost sign was a crucifix. Luke wondered if that was intentional.  It looked very Catholic, although he knew little about them. He was used to empty crosses.  There was something that drew him in, though, that He knew suffering and had carried Luke's sorrows and afflictions for him.  "Thanks," he said quietly in another direction, so as not to be saying it to the crucifix, and he left.\par
Luke found himself outside and in a crowd of people perpetually moving, greeting each other with "Greet God" and a smile.  It made him feel out of place because he had nothing to smile with.  He nodded in return as he looked around.   It was turning into a warm May day, very pleasant, somewhat overcast, with a light wind from - what direction was that, anyway? And where was the stupid medical clinic?  He looked down and discovered he was holding some papers. What is this? He ignored everything except the map. It would have been nice if the little man had told him he was giving him a map.  Useless little - He found a north arrow on the map. Which way is north?  There was the big hanger building in front of him, so it was easy to figure out.  The map called one part of it   "Mathom House" and another part "Church" and a third "Shop" and a fourth "Factory." No steeple. What was a \i mathom\i0 ?  It did take him a minute to move the map around to match where he was, and then he could follow a dashed line to the "Medical Center". It went by a basketball court, which he frowned at as a frivilous and ungodly waste of time and space.  He knew time-waste as a sin to be avoided. He found a row of houses just like on the map, with one still being built at the north end. To the northwest was a stable with a paddock and a barn.  That brought back memories of Dusty. He stood and looked for a minute, but there were no horses in sight.  Did they have horses here?  A good horse ride would really help his mood, he thought. Just you and the horse and God and the weather.  This place had a lot of people -  many people had greeted him in a friendly way with a "Greet God!" in the Epper way just between the Office and the houses.  This was an ant hill with people crawling all over each other.  Epper settlements were close-packed as well, with the houses right up against each other and three, even five story, so it was sort of home-like but he knew no one.  Like coming home to a strange country.  Here the tallest houses were three story, it seemed. There was one row of ten houses and another facing it, the third in the new row under construction and the first two obviously occupied. \par
Here was a house with a sign that said "Medical Clinic."  Well, that should be the same as the medical center, right? Why they could not be consistent was beyond him. Maybe there was a Medical Center elsewhere? How was he supposed to know? Probably the turtle's idea to call them two different things.  Stupid idea to call them different things. Although he had walked all the way in from Nicholls, and actually farther than that, now this last few hundred feet told him how sore he was. He ached all over. Now that he was here and committed, he found himself afraid that things would go very wrong.  He knew very little of this "Refuge City"  beyond a few short paragraphs in \i the Epper Gazette \i0 several years ago and a letter from Matthew a year ago, where he said it was a good place and he would be welcome.  They had written several times, and Matthew of course never put a name or return address on the outside envelope.  Luke had learned to recognized letters with a Harrisonville, MO, postmark.  Both he and Mark would be happy to see him.  But that letter was still in Michigan in his room. What had been his bedroom. Maybe the letter had been discovered and burned by now. Certainly not kept. The possessions of an exiled person were sold or given away as soon as possible - broken up into  a thousand directions so they could not return easily and they would be forgotten.  He'd seen it happen with Mark and Matthew, with people taking their things that they had left. He'd gotten Matthew's quilt. Someone else had it now. Now it seemed like a cruel practice. The whole thing was cruel.  Eppers took strangers in but kicked their own family members out. \par
A storm door, a vestibule, and then in. The waiting room was like any other doctor's office and had one of those sliding translucent  windows.  A feminine voice from the other side said to take a seat and she would be with him in a moment. He sat.  It was very quiet. No one else was there.  Somewhere there was a tractor in the far  distance, except it would start suddenly and then stop. Weird.  Maybe it was having engine problems.   There were no magazines.  There was a common-version Bible, a sign of familiarity, and a ceramic frog with a thermometer in its mouth. It was looking up at him with an expectant look. It held a sign that said "Get Toadally Well". He smiled, thinking of his brother Mark.  He would have to go see Mark and ask him if that was one of his. It looked like it.  Besides starving,  Luke wanted a shower before anything else, but he was supposed to have this exam.  And he didn't know where he could go. And he had no clean clothes, either. Nothing past the clothes on his back.  He felt poor suddenly, like he had nothing.  "Blest be the poor in the spirit" came into his mind, "for of them is the  kingdom of the heavens." There were framed Bible verses on the walls, some embroidery, and a painting of Jesus touching someone's eyes compassionately. Luke tried to remember the passage being referred to.  One frame had the words "I am the LORD who heals you. Exodus 15:26".  He looked at for a while before he realized there was golden light in the background and the green at the bottom was meant to be a field. It had been done in at least ten colors and was up to the high Epper standard of excellence. There was a plain gold cross on the wall, not a crucifix. Luke thought about the One who had occupied a cross for him and had gladly suffered far worse than he had. There were some potted plants in ceramic pots that really did remind him of Mark. Where was he? Luke was alone. Alone in the room, alone in the world. But the cross was empty now, the Savior risen and joy was a fact more than his present sorrow, one that would last forever. \par
The door opened and the nurse came out.  "I'm Sarah," she smiled.  She led him back to the exam room.   Sarah took one of his papers and handed him the rest.  He sat in the little exam room, formerly a bedroom, and got his vitals taken.  She smiled and left. "The doctor will be with you shortly." Not bad, but her manner said Sarah was married.    He was also aware of how much he needed a shower suddenly. \par
More embroidery and painting on the walls of the bed room - er, exam room.  There was a rough wooden cross high on the wall formed out of the letters in "LOVE". He looked at "But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, forbearance, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control" in a feminine stitch that had fruit woven in decoratively, in a rather clever way.  Each word was also a picture.  'Love' was easy in red lettering that formed a heart. 'Joy' was formed out of bright yellow trumpets.   The exam bed could do double-duty as a hospital bed. Medical certificates and licenses and proofs of residency for the doctor and four nurses. Not bad for this place in the middle of nowhere, he thought. He was working on what 'peace' was supposed to be when suddenly, as  always, there was a knock at the door and the doctor entered, white coat and stethescope and all. Luke found that he had been nodding off, sitting there in the quiet.\par
"Luke Kikker? I am Dr. Herzenstube.  That is not my real name but that is what everyone calls me here - no one gets my real name pronounced right  - and so I go by the other here.  A lot of people just call me Doctor H. Everyone seems to know  Dr. Herzenstube."\par
"Out of Brothers Karamazov?"\par
"Very good!"\par
"My father loves that and would read it to the family. It does me glad to know it is known here."\par
"I can make nothing of it!" Dr. H. said. They both laughed. \par
"Are you Russian?"\par
"No. But I am rushing. Ha! Maybe later we can discuss Russian literature. God and snow and suffering and the meaning of life.  For now, let's get down to business. "\par
The doctor asked him the standard sorts of medical questions doctors ask. Luke had no prescriptions and no illnesses and was usually in very good health. He was now, except for some soreness that he did not want to admit.  He was tough. Hungry. Sleep would be nice. But tough.\par
"Shirt - off." He obeyed.\par
"It looks like you were in some kind of a fight here."\par
"Yeah. Some railroad guys educated me on not riding their train."\par
"Well, it is private property - those railroads. Not something to be doing. And dangerous.Crazy, not a \i podvig\i0 , you know. Nothing to boast about."\par
"I won't do it again. Believe me. Ow."\par
"I thought you might have a cracked rib there.  But no."\par
"Does this hurt?"\par
"No."\par
"This?"\par
"No." \par
"This?"\par
"No."\par
"Well, it should, from the looks of it.  Yeah,  you're one tough Epper. More of a Dmitri than an Alyosha physically, eh?  I think you'll be ok in a couple of days. If it gets worse, you come see me. And there is dirt in this scrape on your forehead.  We'll have that cleaned out.  Your teeth look fine, though. Those white spots on the insides of your cheeks will fade with time, although they must hurt.  From getting hit in the mouth - they match your teeth.  No broken nose, but it will hurt for a while.  I would expect some more swelling. And that eye looks pretty swollen. Let me put some ointment on your knuckles.  You gave some back, it looks like. "\par
"Yep. You should see the other guys." He smiled for a second, then stopped.  It made his cheek hurt.  He hadn't smiled in the last three days and had not noticed it.  "I think I am something of a Karamazov in some ways."\par
"Uh-huh, we all are - that is what gives the novel its power," said Dr. Herzenstube. "You seem fine.  I would give you a pain reliever, but I think you wouldn't take it."\par
"Nah," Luke replied, "I don't hurt that much."\par
"I think you are probably very hungry. Come back in the morning before breakfast and let me get a blood sample.  I would like to get two meals in you first."\par
"I would like to get two meals in me also. How do I do that?"\par
"Give me a minute."  He left.\par
"This is the doctor's lunch, by the way," the nurse said,"He brought it but is meeting someone. Enjoy!" It was a chicken sandwich and apple and glass of cold whole milk. The bread was whole wheat, not black bread, which was different. And spinach, not lettuce, with some sort of spread where he would have expected mustard, but could not identify.  "Dinner is at six in the dining halls."  She also circled trailer 16 on his map and said he was supposed to meet someone there, so go and wait. He ate while she cleaned his forehead.  His knuckles and a few other places received bandages as well. She silently looked at his shirt and disappeared.  \par
A few minutes later he was standing outside in his new shirt getting his bearings. Trailer 16 was on the west side of the trailer complex, which looked like someone had just dropped the trailers at random but somewhat close to each other. He was on the east side. He found the office trailer and the medical center.  Most of the trailers were unnumbered, he discovered.  They were all very new looking and some were not five feet apart at the closest, although no two were at the same angle.  Soon he was in the maze of trailers, and he could find his way only because you could see the hanger buildings to the south and the water tower to the north, which men were painting.  There were also people who told him which way to go - a lot of people, all helpful, all glad to see him but also busy as Eppers.  \par
Trailer 16 was the fifth trailer from the south, or the sixth, depending on how you counted it, and also the third or fourth from the west, depending again on how you counted it. It was brown, he was told. Or green, others said.  He discovered a large dining hall that was not on the map, and beside it communal mens' and womens' showers as well as lavatories and a laundry with communal washers and driers. How is this trailer 16?  It made no sense. \par
"Most of us," a babushka told him, "prefer to wash our own laundry in the time-honored way. Idle fingers are the devil's playground." But she had a large basket of clean laundry and was coming from the communal laundry.  Luke did not point this out.  She took him to Trailer 16 and saw that he got in before going on her way.  "No time for chit-chat!" she said by way of good-bye.\par
It was very new looking and had a fine surface of gravel all the way up to the door, so there was only one small step in.  Most of the stairs were buried. Here was an empty bed, he had been told, and five single quarry-men lived here.  It sounded like he was slated for the quarry. Slated for the quarry.  Mark would like that pun. What was a Honeybucket Brigade? Was that better?\par
 The trailer was unlocked, of course, this being an Epper settlement, or an ex-Epper settlement, despite thousands of people - Epper settlements usually topped off at about three hundred, if they had not started another one by then,  and if anyone wanted something, the thinking went, they were more than welcome to it.  'Do not steal it - let me bless you by allowing me to give you this!' as it was in the story.  Whoever he was supposed to meet was not there yet.  There was a front bedroom on his right as he entered, then the kitchen, the dining area, the living room area that only had some folding chairs, nothing else, on a tile floor, and then the hall ran down past a bedroom to another bedroom past the bathroom.  It smelled of sweat and was fairly spare even by Epper standards.  No one was home.  There was no refrigerator and no stove, only a number of ceramic cups upside down on the counter, and the doors had been removed from the cabinets. There was even a space where a cabinet had been entirely removed.  The absence reinforced the sense of spareness.   It was all clean, however. Epper scrubbed. \i Nicht schmutzig\i0 , as his grandmother used to say. She would never admit something was clean, only that it was not dirty, regardless of how much scrubbing and polishing had been done. And she had done a lot of it. They had found his Oma dead in the bathroom. She had been scrubbing the floor behind the toilet with a toothbrush.  Ninety six years old and still scrubbing.   \par
Here was a broom in the corner with its dustpan anyway. \par
Then Luke found a small refrigerator on the counter that had some juices in it.  There were sodas. Sodas? Why were there sodas? Sodas were unnatural, an accommodation to the world, unnatural trafficking between men of God and the seed of Cain, and possibly evil in his opinion.  Could Christians drink soda? Had he wandered into a cult? Weren't they unnatural and artificial and unholy, maybe a direct invention of the devil? People never went that far but they left it open as to the possibility. Jesus have mercy on me.\par
The long wall at the end of the living room had a single sign in it: Poshlost Free Zone, that looked exactly like the one in the Office. Luke wondered if they were up everywhere here.  And across from it was a crucifix. The One on it was truly suffering.  Luke's life was \i poshlost\i0  in comparison. He had no real troubles, what with having clothes and food and shelter. The commandment was to be content with only two of those. He tried to remember which two, but then he had all three.  God was good and was looking out for him. \par
There were some snack-type items, mainly bags of chips, in one of the cabinets, store-bought, which was also alarming, because he had been raised to use only what you can make or trade for, and NEVER trade with Sodom and Gomorrah, meaning the outside world.  These few small bags made the kitchen looked even emptier. He was used to every square inch possible being crammed full of pots and pans and supplies and garlands of spices and onions, dried seeds, hanging hams and smoked chickens, bags of potatoes, you name it. As well as the woman of the house and several kids and possibly a \i jongedamme\i0  being bossed around by the lady of the house.  It wasn't a kitchen otherwise.  This again was unnatural.  There was not a single pan or cooking utensil. There was a bar of soap and a small dish towel and a dishrag. That was about it.  It was clear someone else came and cleaned and cooked for them, if they ate here at all. In one bedroom there was one bed-frame without a mattress across from a made bed.  The other beds were all nicely made, Epper fashion, with a pillow at one end and a folded quilt at the other. There was a Bible on each nightstand - the thicker one with the Greek New Testament text opposite the English, and English provided for Psalms, but the rest only in Koine.  The corner of his mouth twitched - hadn't God abandoned him in Michigan? No. He had led Luke here, he thought again. Except there was that soda.  He decided sleeping in the same building as soda was not necessarily indulging in sin, although he intended to bring it to an elder's attention at once, as soon as he met one.  There was a Bible on the nightstand by the empty bed frame. He picked it up and opened it. Inside there was a card "To Luke Kikker. We are glad you are here and this Bible is a gift to you. May God bless you abundantly. Signed, the Admin Staff". Wow.  That helped. This was typical Epper effficiency - the Bible must have been signed and dropped off here while he was seeing the doctor. \par
Luke sat on the one of the folding chairs in the living room and waited, clutching his papers.  He looked through them.   One was a "Welcome to Refuge City, USA" brochure.  Another was a Guide for Visitors.  A third was a copy of the information the turtle had taken.  When had he had time to make a copy? The turtle had exceptionally clear printing, that was for sure.  There was a schedule that said when church was and what time meals were served.  Groups you could join outside of work. The children were going as a group to the zoo and there was a paper on that: what to bring, where to meet, details on who to contact. Folk choir. Polyphonic choir. There were other papers.  Luke lost interest in them.  It was warm now, without air conditioning.  The windows were open but screened.  A fly was searching for a way in one of the windows.  There was that mechanical tut-tut-tut on and off again, and he realized it was no tractor.  It was louder here than in the medical clinic, but then he was further west.  What, then?  Maybe it was something to do with the quarry the turtle had mentioned. He heard meal preparation and feminine conversation in a nearby trailer. Two men walked by discussing something in Koine Greek.  He recognized a few words but they were speaking quickly, their sentences seemed complex, and the words he recognized were theological.  Something about iconoclasm in the early church. In the silence he became aware of his injuries again, and various parts were complaining. It did hurt to smile or to breathe deeply. And his right foot was warning him it had had enough, a sharp pain when he rotated it flat.  He had not noticed that before now. His tongue explored the tooth-marks inside his cheeks.  Funny the doctor had seen that before he had.  Some laughing children ran by.  Two women walked by, talking. Suddenly and clearly in the middle of the conversation, one of them said to the other, "You must trust God in this," and they went on.  But it seemed like the words were for him. "I must trust God in this," he said to himself, and repeated it several times. \par
He closed his eyes and remembered the other night.  He had walked all that day and it was getting late and cold.  In a wooded area he saw a campfire not too far away, and so he had headed for it, hoping for hospitality.  There were about four guys and a woman sitting. Beyond them were tents and he could see a truck or two in the glimmer of the firelight.\par
They'd been talking, but when they saw him, they went silent.\par
"Hello," Luke said, "I saw your fire - mind if I warm up a little? Then I'll be on my way."\par
They looked at each other and shrugged and made a little room.  Luke sat down and the warmth was feeling good.\par
"Nice coat," the one next to him said. He was short and skinny. He had a squinty look like a little rat or something. He reached out and touched it with one finger.\par
"Thanks." Luke replied. He was thinking about how far he had come and how far it still was to Nicholls.  His boots were fine, though.  Resting felt good.  Maybe he could sleep by the fire.\par
"He means, give it to him," the one on the other side of him said. He looked even more like a little rat. Luke routinely lifted things heavier than both of them put together.  \par
But giving the coat away was not a problem. Epper-bred, Luke did not object to taking off his coat and giving it to him, despite the cold. Perhaps the little man was cold.  So Luke stood up.  He was taking his coat off when he discovered the rat was holding a knife.  A large knife.  Luke didn't like that at all, and with his arms still in the coat sleeves he did the only thing he could: he kicked.  He caught the rat between the legs with his leg , and lifted him: he weighed very little. The little rat flew a foot or so and landed on his side in the fire.\par
His friends on the other side of the fire pulled him out on that side. "We don't want any trouble," they said, and they apologized to Luke as they put out the flames.\par
"I need a doctor," said the rat, when he could, and he whimpered.  He didn't stop, either.\par
The other little rat also had a knife.  He rushed at Luke, who now had his coat most of the way on.  Luke grabbed his knife-wrist and lifted him off the ground and shook him. Luke was tall enough that with his arm raised he could still lift the guy completely off the ground by the wrist. His legs swayed back and forth as Luke shook him.  The little rat tried to hit and kick but to no effect.\par
The knife fell.  The little guy's leg connected but it wasn't very hard. Luke stared at his frightened, angry face as he swung there flailing. The others were silently watching.  The first rat was whimpering.\par
 Luke didn't know what to do with this one.  He couldn't safely put him down - he would probably just grab the knife.  So  Luke threw him against a tree several feet away.  He slid down it and sat, looking at Luke. \par
"Please leave," all of them begged Luke. "We don't want any trouble."   \par
Luke could think of nothing to say. He found himself stupidly saying "Do you still want my coat?" but that did not seem to help. So he put his coat all the way back on and left.  He'd walked a distance and he heard their trucks starting up and moving off.  He stood in a dark place and listened to be sure he wasn't being followed.  After that incident he'd avoided fires and people as much as possible.  Long before Papa had told him never to start a fight but be sure to finish it.\par
It wasn't too long before there was a knock at the trailer door and a cheerful "Hello!" A fox-faced man poked his head in, and then the rest of him quickly followed.  Luke discovered again that he had nodded off, but now he was awake.  The fox was obviously an elder from his beard, and he had a protege in tow. Was the custom here, as it was among many Eppers, to ignore the protege as much as possible? The protege was middle-aged and likely in training to be an elder, busily practicing \i stushevatsya\i0 . He had an owl-like look.  Which way would it go?\par
"Luke Kikker?" Luke nodded.  A hand reached out for the papers and Luke gave it everything. With a grunt most were handed back, and together the elder and the protege read over what the turtle had written.\par
 The elder introduced himself as Elder Cassell.  He introduced the protege by name, which Luke did not catch, and explained that Luke would be talking to the elder only, and the protege would be silent.  This was familiar. \i Stushevatsya. \i0 There was a Dutch equivalent but he did not know the word. Or, for that matter, the English. You put yourself in the background.  If Eppers had a battle cry, it would be that.  Epper settlements had always been in obscure places, hidden from the world.  It had served them well, mostly.   The three sat down. The protege opened his briefcase and took out a pen and a notepad. He balanced the briefcase on his lap as a sort of desk and was ready to take notes. Luke noticed that the paper - his paper - disappeared into the briefcase. \par
"I understand that you had a rough trip in - you got beat up? Is that right?  It certainly looks like it. And they threw you out of the settlement before then?"\par
"Word gets around," Luke said. "That's right. St. Paul's in Clare County, Michigan."\par
"Unfortunately more was said than that. I am reluctant to start things this way, but I am afraid I must, to head off any further trouble.  You made some impression at the office, one that you hopefully will not repeat. I think your trip excuses your conduct somewhat, but please understand that we hope you do not always act as you did over there.  Both people in the office said you were rather cocky and confrontational. Overly so, to the point it was brought to my attention.  This is not desirable.  Is that understood?"\par
Luke said it was. He was also uncomfortably aware that the protege was taking notes.\par
"I would like to hear you say there will not be a repetition." The elder gave him a look that said he did have authority to say that.  It wasn't a statement so much as a warning, somehow, but also a way of escape. \par
"There won't be. I am sorry."  The protege wrote some more.\par
When he had finished, Elder Cassell said, "I am glad to hear you say that. Just let me mention that people take turns in shifts there - no one person does the job of Intake Officer.  The man you saw was a volunteer, spending his free time there because he thinks  - well, we'll leave it there.  He volunteers out of compassion.  The call of Christ.  It is how he does the one thing, forgetting what lies behind and reaches forward to what lies ahead.  People need help.  I would be surprised if there was anything he did wrong. Was there?"\par
Luke said there wasn't.  He felt his face reddening with shame.  Was he done here already? Where would he go? Where could he go?\par
"That, by the way, is the word of the Lord for us in this time.  'Brethren, I do not regard myself as having laid hold of it yet, but one thing I do: forgetting what lies behind and reaching forward to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus.' Philippians 3:13.  Many here have suffered the loss of all things and need to forget the past and move on. Paul set the example."\par
Luke grunted, surprised. \par
"We have pastors here, by the way, some of whom are excellent counselors. I say that as a general statement and I am not implying that I think you need counseling now. If there is anything you need to work on - and we all have things that we need to work on - they would be happy to talk to you. Many of our elders are trained spiritual directors, if you are interested in your formation as a Christian, as you should be. I am just providing you with this knowledge. I myself am an administrator and not a counselor.  I hope that you will feel welcome here and grow in the grace and love of our Lord here."\par
Luke said he appreciated the information. Was this protoge writing every word, he wondered to himself. The reddening was going away.\par
"I want to follow up on something our Doctor H. said you said.  You said you are something of a Karamazov.  What did you mean by that?"\par
"I get into these fantastic situations, you know, like they did. Like getting beaten up."\par
"Those, mostly, were their own choices, were they not?"\par
"Well, yes.  And I suppose mine are, too.  I mean, if I had not ridden the rails-"\par
"You would not be beaten up."\par
"Well, yes."\par
"But it goes beyond that, doesn't it.  It seems so to me.  It is just unusual for someone to identify as a Karamazov. Sometimes people come here bearing burdens that it is time for them to drop.  I would encourage you to talk to a pastor.  That is as far as I will take it.  I am not judging you, by the way, with that statement.  They are a great blessing here.  There is healing for the soul, you know.  Deep healing." He paused for a moment.  \par
Luke smiled slightly but this was a little weird.\par
"Ok, let's move on then, and discuss the contract."  He would live here in Trailer 16 - sleep and shower, more exactly, because they would keep him very busy, and he would be eating at a dining hall - and work at the quarry for the next week, and then they would talk, and then go three months, and then they would talk again and renegotiate the contract.  Elder Cassell would see that an eye doctor's appointment as well as a dental exam would get scheduled for him.   Elder Cassell would also be talking to Luke's co-workers and supervisor to be sure there were no more problems.  That was just the way it had to be.   Luke was unskilled and this was a bare-bones contract and it would not be an easy three months.  He was Epper-raised and used to hard physical labor.  This would be in sun and wind and rain and snow, usually fully exposed.  Meals would be at the dining hall near the quarry six days a week and Sundays they would go a-visiting and eat with a family. The quarrymen were working from 6:30 AM now until 8 PM  due to the long daylight with meal breaks six days a week. His clothes would be furnished. Laundry and cleaning would be taken care of by others. Haircuts and other incidentals would be provided. Every three months the quarrymen took a week off, during which equipment got maintained and they tended to other things that needed attention, and to study and improve themselves both spiritually and technically. He would be expected to put in a full day's work, every day, once he got used to it, and to exceed that and learn the skills he needed for the job and to advance.  They had last taken a week off a month ago, so it would be two months and a week before their next break. It would not be luxurious but as Luke improved his skills things would go well.   It sounded good to Luke.  \par
Did Luke have any questions? Luke didn't really want to bring it up, but there was the soda. Luke would discover that different people had different ideas of what it meant to follow Christ, and this was an area where there was liberty.  People tended to put themselves under the law, particularly, and it was not meant personally, people from separatist communities, who sometimes accepted as Gospel customs that were not in Scripture.  Here they were not separatist, and Luke would have to accept that. Luke would probably also discover a few things he did that were not acceptable, and he might have to change some things. People would try to accommodate differences. Elder Cassell spoke on Romans 14 until it was clear Luke was having difficulty paying attention.  \par
What was the Honeybucket Brigade?  There were no sewers in some trailers yet.  The Honeybucket Brigade went around twice a day and collected the buckets under those trailers and emptied them into a truck, and then emptied the truck out several miles away from where they were living.  They hoped to get rid of the need as soon as possible, but it was not something he would want to do.  And most of those guys were smaller and lighter than Luke. But if he would prefer it..\par
Luke signed the paper.  He wanted to demonstrate docility of mind and character and agreement in these things, that he knew \i stushevatsya\i0 , and was not prone to outbursts, to \i khamstvo\i0 , and there was really no where else he knew of that he could go.  And the quarry sounded better than the Honeybucket Brigade.  Inside, however, he never intended to touch soda or store-bought snacks. And there was nothing, absolutely nothing, that he needed to change about himself that would bother someone else. If they had a problem with him they were jerk-faces anyway. Elder Cassell was not a jerk-face, anyway. The protege took the signed paper and gave Luke the top copy and put its carbon in his briefcase. Luke put his papers in the nightstand drawer by the empty bed . That drawer was otherwise empty, he noticed. There was a thin wooden cross on the wall near the light switch. As he left the room, without thinking  he touched his fingers to his lips and then to the cross, and there was a sudden pang of homesickness.  This now was home, though.\par
"Any other questions?"  they were both smiling at him now. His heart seemed lighter than it had been since leaving Michigan.\par
"Yeah. Why is this Trailer 16?"\par
"Ah, good question.  That is the serial number from the factory.  It ends in 0016, so we call it 16.  No one has bothered to name it yet. Most trailers go by the name of those living in it or by what people are doing there - like the Cobbler's trailer.  But that is also the Ketters', because they live there. It is very confusing.  We have not had time to label trailers. It would help.  I was not here when the trailers arrived and the drivers just sort of dumped them here and there. People were in tents before then.  We have moved a few trailers but it takes several hours and a lot of people. Then we started hooking up utilities, so I think they will stay where they are until we can move people into better housing. We are building houses. Some of the stone will go there from the quarry you are building.  Your dining hall is the first building built with rock from our quarry.  Even the roof.  We used - what are those called?"\par
"Vaulted arches," the protege supplied.\par
"Yes, vaulted arches," the elder continued, as if Luke could not hear the protege. "It is completely stone and a beautiful piece of work. You could not fit a knife blade between any two stones.  There is no mortar used. Amazing.  One of our stone mason crews is off east somewhere building a facade on a college campus building. You will see it later. Some people wanted the church done first, but the stone masons said this was practice and there aren't enough of them for anything larger.  There is talk of a chapel next. For smaller crowds.  More intimate than an aircrafte hanger. Most anything is, come to think of it.  Anything else?"\par
Luke had no further questions. \par
 Elder Cassell took him to the quarry, where the sound he had  thought to be a tractor with mechanical problems was a rock chipper on wheels. It looked like a short tractor with an assembly on the front that struck the rock repeatedly. The quarry was on the west side of   the trailers, and there were about ten men working there in two crews.  It was a pit quarry, shallow and wide and narrow in the other direction. It was more of a trench going east to west than a developed quarry, about a hundred feet long and thirty wide and ten deep.  There were layers being worked, with the rock chipper and a crew the furthest out, breaking up the surface rock down to a layer of shale that was about forty feet wide.    Shale had been removed above greenish rock, where another crew was working with rock saws and cutting the greenish rock into blocks and stacking them away from the working face.   These were huge men in the Dutch way, tall and broad and fit. Bears. There was a dump truck parked near the rock chipper.  The men were mostly using picks and shovels. \par
One man saw them and walked over.  He took off his safety helmet and his gloves. There were few men larger than Luke, but he was one.  He towered over the elder like a bear facing a man. A big bear.  "Elder Cassell," he nodded in a deep voice.  He took the piece of paper the protege thrust at him, quickly scanned it, and then to Luke, "Brian Bread.  You must be Luke Kikker. I'm the foreman here."\par
"I'll be going. You two have some talking to do," Elder Cassell said, and they nodded to each other and Elder Cassell left, followed by his silent protege and his briefcase.\par
"What happened to you?"\par
"I had a disagreement with some railroad people."\par
"It looks like you lost the argument.  But you can work?"\par
"Yeah."\par
Brian looked into Luke's eyes sharply, and then, for a second, it seemed, into his brain.  It was an odd flash that was uncomfortable. Like Brian knew everything about him. Everything. Brian was not someone he could ever lie to - he would know.  These were penetrating eyes. Truth is harder than stone, they seemed to say.  This was not one you could ever deceive, or dare try.  Not that Luke typically lied, but then he wasn't completely candid about why he had been kicked out.   He felt that somehow Brian knew it and they would discuss it at some point.  Luke was standing in the presence of absolute truth and nothing was hidden, or could be, from this man.  "Did Dr. H. say anything about light duty?"\par
"No, just that he wants me to give him a blood sample before breakfast."\par
"Roger that.  Make sure you get over there.  And I know your brothers. Good, godly men. I hope you are the same." \par
Was there more to that than a friendly expression? Oh, he wished he was a godly man. "I admire them. I hope to live up to their example," he finally said, and meant it. What did Brian know, he wondered. "What are they doing?"\par
"Mark's got a company going, and Matthew is helping, when not the pharmicist here.  We don't see much of either, but they come to Liturgy on the Lord's Day.  They will probably hear you are around and look you up.  They can tell you more than I can. Beyond that, I don't know much about them. Now, you'll be on my gravel team. Not every team is here - some are cutting utility trenches. Or filling them.  Now let me see your hands.  Good calluses there - you shouldn't have too much trouble. There.   Your bicep is ready for this work - you  must be used to lifting heavy things.  Today is cloudy and warm but not too hot, like some days we get here in May, a good breaking-in day. But...you do not have gear yet.  Tomorrow should be the same.  Maybe you will have boots and overalls tomorrow - they work fast around here.  Eppers are not slugs, I will tell you that.   You can see we have the surface rock - hardly any dirt at all - here in a layer about six feet deep.  Then there is shale, between two and three feet, and then there is the architectural-grade limestone, about five feet. We can sell that up in Kansas City to contractors.  Sometimes we use it around here.  Underneath that is a more fractured layer of dolomite, good for gravel but so far we are not using it much.  So our quarry is about twelve feet deep.  When it rains hard we have to pump it out.  Someday maybe it will be a lake.  And someday we will cut a drainage channel to the east. Right now we have just cut a ditch so the water has some place to go when we pump it.  Otherwise we would get complaints. We used to, before we dug it, which took a month.   Do you know how to drive a truck?"\par
"No," he admitted.  A few more questions and it was clear he didn't know anything.  He didn't know how to protect his back or any first aid or how to sharpen a shovel, operate a rock chipper or fix it. Brian didn't say anything but it was clear he was just a set of muscles as far as Brian was concerned. He didn't think keypunching was a skill Brian would be interested in.  Luke might get teased about that forever. \par
 The men were passing up gravel in metal buckets relay-wise and dumping it into a dump truck parked at the bottom of the ramp down into the quarry.  One huge fellow stood apart, tossing gravel up from his bucket like most people toss water, but he kept pace with the others.  \par
"Why don't you use a conveyor?" Luke asked. \par
They looked at each other. That would have been too obvious. Why not? The big guy laughed when he heard this even as he threw more gravel up. \par
Brian nodded as if to say that this was a good idea. "Do you still have your map? Go \i here \i0 and find Amram Boom and ask him to come and look at the situation. If anyone can build us a conveyor, it's him.  Good idea there for the first day on the job.  We need to get you some gear before you work out here, anyway, so I think you are going to do our running around today. Someone has to, and that way you will learn how this place is laid out, something you need to know anyway."\par
Luke found himself spending the afternoon on errands of this sort.  He also had to find a particular trailer (the Ketters' - it was unnumbered and directions were useless - he found it by asking people where the Ketters lived - and then there were several Ketters, and a Ketterer, and he found it on the third try, having visited two other Ketter trailers) and was measured for clothing and shoes.   He met again with Elder Cassell (who seemed to have an amazing ability to find him, because he was on an errand at the time, and lost, also, and they went over the form the turtle had filled out.  Elder Cassell wanted to know things Luke did not know the answer to, such as what he wanted to do now that he was here.  What were his goals? Hopes? What had God said to him?  But all the elder had gotten were embarrassed smiles and a sheepish grin. Luke didn't know.   "Perhaps more than rock will be extracted at the quarry," the elder told him. \par
At six o'clock he found the Quarry Dining Hall, one of the few common dining facilities at the Ranch, as people were calling it.  As he had been told, the walls were made out of limestone from the quarry. There was a man his own age and build standing outside who smiled, friendly like.\par
"Luke Kikker."\par
"Miles Standish."\par
"Really? That's a pilgrim -"\par
"Just joshing you. Call me Mike.  My name is Polish and few can pronounce it. You're new.  Welcome here."\par
"Thanks. What's with the Quarry Dining hall?"\par
"Most of the families were now eating as families and preferred not to have single people added on every meal, so here most of the single people ate who didn't have family, or maybe just one or two relatives here.  It's served buffet line style. It used to be that everyone ate in the dining halls, but things had changed. There had been a lot of arguments before you got here, because some Epper settlements always ate in common. Others always ate in families. Unity in diversity, not in common practice.  Some people felt that everyone should do it the same way to express unity.   We had to work through that.  Now there is liberty there. "\par
"I guess that's one of those differences we need to work on together."\par
"Yeah. My settlement was Polish and we always ate in families.  I argued against continuing the dining hall and only going with family eating - now I eat mostly in the dining hall, here. I have learned to like it.  Now you could eat in common, or in families. Mostly it is the single people who eat in common now, but there are some families."\par
"Where do you work?"\par
"I work in the hanger.  I'm a machinist apprentice."\line "I'm in the quarry. I just started. We're talking about a conveyor."\par
"You're THAT Luke Kikker? Great idea.  I'm going to be working on the conveyor. But let me tell you, the quarry  work is hard. Most people don't last there but move on to do other things.  I was there only a week before I moved on."\par
"Do they ever make \i pelmini\i0  here?"\par
"Do they ever. We have some Russian Epper women here."\par
Luke's heart leaped. Mama was a Russian Epper, although Papa was Dutch.  Her village had escaped the Communists by floating down the Volga River on barges and eventually making their way to Michigan. Papa's family had escaped the Nazi occupation of Holland - in 1935 Opa had had a series of dreams telling him to move to America, great darkness was coming, war and famine.  He had been so restless that they had moved to Michigan and so had escaped the war. It was after that that the Eppers in Europe decided to take the Stand against Naziism and take in Jews and cripples and homosexuals and communists - basically anyone the Nazis hated - into their settlements for protection. In retaliation the Nazis annihilated all the Eppers they could find in Holland, northern Germany, Poland, and Russia, along with the people they had been protecting. \par
"Hey Luke," one of the men from the quarry found him. There were four others. They invited him to eat with them, so he joined them.  The rest of the quarrymen were married and ate with their families. Mike was going to eat with a woman he was courting and disappeared. So the five quarrymen got in line.  It seemed forever.  Around them, though, Luke was not so self-conscious about needing a shower. There had been no time.\par
Here was an easel. On it was written 'Tuesday night - American Chow'.  What was chow?\par
Someone said grace and the line started moving. \par
Behind the buffet line flitted a row of hummingbirds, the cooks, who made sure there was enough food.  They stood there, pretty and smiling and ready to add more food to the line when they were not cooking or dishing out food.  It was rare that they were still. Luke remembered that young women were called hummingbirds  because their hands moved so fast you could not see them, always stirring, pouring, reaching, if not knitting, spinning, darning, sewing, scrubbing, washing, digging or cutting.  Idle hands were the devil's playground, and it was rare that the hands of a hummingbird were still.  \par
Somewhere ahead of him in line a warm-sounding male voice rose, loud. "Hey Annetka, did you make those sweet rolls again?"\par
"Yes, I did," she said, pleased with the attention. She was adding potato salad to the dining bar.  Just like Michigan, Luke thought.  Potato salad was almost always on the menu. This was a mustard potato salad. He was used to a more diced potato salad with more pickes, boiled potatoes and carrots, eggs, meat and peas.  This had no peas and was smoother. \par
"I am going to marry you just for those sweet rolls. No other reason, of course." He said that to her back, as she was now in the kitchen. \par
"I would not expect it. I hope you like my potato salad. I will fill you up with it if I can.     But..I expect you to make a great man out of yourself first, Joshua Boom, and then we will see what my father has to say." Now she was putting out clean plates, and she vanished with an empty bin of vegetables and a quick smile.   There was some good natured hooting and exchanges of this sort between the men in the line and the women behind the buffet tables.  \par
"The only thing better that you make than sweet rolls are \i pirogi\i0 ."\par
"Anyone can make \i pirogi\i0 . I prefer to make pelmini, which we will have tomorrow. But thank you."  Luke's heart leaped.  Mama made \i pelmini\i0 ! They ate it here! He also was struck again by homesickness: a familiar thing mentioned in a strange place. How many Russian and Polish Eppers were here, anyway?\par
"Hey Annetka, you are sweeter than those rolls!" She was now putting out rolls. \par
"Indeed.  Yesterday I was  spicier than the chili. Which is it, Josh?" she called from the kitchen.\par
"You have a wide range."  She was now adding silverware to the trays.\par
"Well, thank you.  Such flattery! I see the sun has brought out your wits. They are not cloudy, but bright." And she was gone again. The other hummingbirds were flitting around the same. It was a wonder none of them ever ran into each other. \par
The drinks were water and apple juice (labeled \i appelsap\i0 ),  tea (labeled \i thee\i0 ) , and then there were sodas, neatly piled, and pitchers of ice.  Luke very carefully took apple juice, which was the farthest from the soda.  He didn't want anyone to thing that he was compromised with the world. But who here would think so? What was right and wrong here? Could he trust the elders to guide him? They allowed soda.  What else? And was the water good? At home you drank beer or wine, never straight water.  How could they drink water? That was for animals.\par
Luke was disappointed that there were no women at his table.  He noticed some tables were all women, some all men, and some were mixed. The women of the buffet line sat by themselves.  After the line cleared he noticed that Josh and Annetka were sitting together, talking, at a table with other couples. \par
The quarry men were tired and glad of the break.  There really wasn't much in the way of conversation.  Luke was feeling his own long day hitting, on top of the previous few days, and didn't feel like talking much anyway.  There was another Luke, a Bill, a John, a Matthew and a Mark at the table. The big guy was John and so he was naturally called Little John.  They were sun-worn men mostly in their thirties, big in the Dutch manner, with well-worn muscles on a huge frame.  Luke wondered which one was his roommate, but he did not want to display anything that might be considered undue interest.  They asked him no questions and he didn't ask any. \par
At one table over there was a discussion on the nature of love that got interrupted when the noise was too high.  Luke overheard snatches. "Love is being willing to be taken advantage of...Love is trying to be taking for granted, because it is then a mark of faithfulness: your beloved trusts you to be so faithful...Love is laying down your life..."  What is love, Luke wondered.  Would he even know it if he was loved?  He tended to organize his life along anger-non-anger not love.  He suddenly realized the turtle had tried to love him and Luke had refused to see it.  He found this somewhat disturbing.  Wasn't he better than this?\par
 They ate and left.  On his way out Luke looked at the arched vault. There were smaller ones on the outside collonade as well.  Some stonemasons here were highly skilled, that was for sure.  But Eppers always tried to excel in everything to the glory of God, and architecture was no exception.  There was a banner "But one thing I do"  made and hung in such a way that it seemed like a part of the building.  Philippians 3:13, Luke guessed. He also needed to forget the past and press forward.  \par
The adults, he noticed, walked with dignity and grace, moreso than at home.  The men more prowled than walked, with power.  There was nothing feminine about it.  The women walked - well, he had better get his mind elsewhere.  Hadn't Ambrose said something about not running?  But here was a teenager running, in fact running to him. The teen stopped in front of him.\par
"You must be Luke Kikker."\par
"I am."  Luke realized that a big bruised man near the Quarry Dining Hall in clothing from outside would be easy to describe.\par
"I have a message from Brian  Bread of the Quarry.  Your mattress and linens are ready. The mattress is at the Mathom House - ask for Kathy - and your linens are in Trailer 85. Got that?"\par
"Yes. But where is -" the messenger was gone already, doubtless off to deliver other messages. Maybe to tell Brian Bread that the message was delivered?\par
 The Mathom House was on the map.  He reached it by staying outside the trailer area so he would not get lost inside there, and went to the far south.  The line of hangers was easy to find.  He had been told - no, it was in one of the papers they had given him - each hanger was a former B-52 hanger, 200 feet wide by 200 feet deep, from Whiteman Air Force Base.  Somehow they had gotten them - it was considered something of a miracle - and they were in use. Things not currently in use were stored at the Mathom House. \par
He found Mathom House on the map.  There a middle aged woman was sitting sewing and chatting with two younger women who were also sewing in the early evening light. A small child was playing with a ball at the foot of one of the younger women.\par
"I am looking for Kathy."  The little child looked up at him, astonished, and stared with an open mouth.\par
"She's not here right now.  You would be?"  \par
"Luke Kikker.  I was told my mattress is ready. Is this the right place?"  He looked at the two younger women discreetly.  Not bad.  But one, anyway, is married. \par
The older woman  nodded.  She put down her sewing and walked over to a desk.  There was a clipboard.\par
"I guess I will get used to all this organization," she said. "I'm Betty, by the way, and these are my daughters Elizabeth and Sarah."  The daughters  gave little finger waves and smiles.  The little child was still staring. \par
Luke waved back.  He was once again strongly reminded of his bruises and bandages and lack of a shower.  Great way to meet women.\par
"It's not polite to stare, darling," one told the child. \par
"Yes," said Betty, "There is a mattress for you."  He had to sign for it.  It was laid out on a worktable, apparently just sewn or repaired or something.  It looked like new.  He found the best way to heft and haul was on his back, as it was large and awkward.  Off he went.  He was too proud to ask for help, and didn't think it was right to ask anyway.    The child and he made eye contact for the last time as he turned the corner.  Probably staring the whole time, Luke thought.   It was a little shorter going on the north side of the hanger, so he did that and avoided getting lost.  Now he was back at the trailer, complete with a mattress he had kept off the ground the whole way.  He set it down on the bottom step and went up to the door and opened it.\par
Wrong trailer.  A boy and a girl were clearing dinner dishes from a table and the nursing woman looked up, startled, from a couch and covered herself.  The \i jongedamme \i0 in the kitchen gave a little shriek. "Gottes Willen!" she exclaimed. \par
"Sorry, wrong trailer," Luke muttered, and backed up and away.\par
"Was that a monster, mama?" he heard the boy ask.\par
"Sssh, don't say such things. He did give us a start! Just a big man, that is all.  There are no monsters here."\par
"I am not afraid of monsters, mama." The boy replied.  He could not make out the mother's response.\par
By then Luke and his mattress had tiptoed away. But where was trailer 16?\par
 He cautiously looked at his next guess for a minute and listened.  Silence.  He opened the door and peeked in. Yep.  A minute later he had wrestled it down the hall and it was on his bedframe.  A big guy like he was needed no help with a mattress, although it had been awkward to get through the door.  But there it was.  Next, the linens. \par
What was that trailer number?  He could not remember. He was also feeling his own lack of sleep.   And the trailers were in no order, so that would not help. \par
After asking twenty people and visiting twenty trailers by mistake, it seemed like it, it was nearing sunset and Luke managed to find Trailer 16 again while carrying a large pile  consisting of a pillow, sheets, blanket and quilt,towels, washcloths, and t-shirts, which someone somehow classified as linens, and he made his bed the way they did back in Michigan. He frowned, because the way the sheet and the blanket were folded at the top were different here.  But it was taut, square-cornered, and satisfactory. He would watch his roommate make his bed in the morning, he thought, and use the same trick. He wondered again which was his roommate. No socks or undershorts. What was up with that? Didn't they wear them? Nah.  Not possible.  He would have to ask someone. He hung his towel opposite his room mate's and went back to the quarry.  He was pleased to be finding his way around a little.\par
"You said you don't know how to drive a pickup truck," Brian asked him. "We need to pick up some nitrogen cylinders and swap out the tool tips.  We go through a lot here."   I don't have time to teach you to drive tonight. And I can't really spare anyone to drive.  I would like it if you would haul the spent cylinders to the recharge station - it's in the hanger where you went earlier - and get new ones back here, and then get the worn tips to the shop and get new ones.  And this will help toughen you up for the work here."\par
Luke nodded.  He was not really looking forward to spending his days in the sun in back-breaking labor, but he was Epper raised.  There were six steel cylinders, each over a hundred pounds,  and each would required a trip all the way to the hanger, two trips, one there and one back, and then the tips weren't light, either.  Some of his muscles were complaining but that was life.\par
There was more work after that.  He helped Amram Boom measure things for the new conveyor.  He carried dulled shovels to where they would be sharpened. There were dulled rock saw blades to be exchanged for sharpened ones.   There was plenty of work to do.  They stopped work when it was well after dark and put their tools under a canopy, then covered them with canvas and tied it down.  They walked quietly back to their trailers, the married men separating at points.  Brian made sure Luke followed the other single men before he went home.\par
He and his trailer-mates sat on the folding chairs in the living room, waiting for their turn in the shower.  Not very talkative, Luke thought, but it had been a long day .  The first man had gone directly into the shower. Luke learned that having their own shower, in their own trailer, was a new thing, only a week old. Before then it had been the communal showers, so they were feeling like things were improving.  There was a knock at the door - his overalls and clothes and boots were ready. Trailer 162.  Luke took the map out and found that trailer on it.  He headed out into the dark -the only light was from the stars  and trailer windows - and found it after some time.  At least he was getting quicker at this.\par
By the time he returned everyone else had showered and was asleep. He showered - there was no hot water, and the water was very cold - and did not turn the light on in his room, as his roommate was asleep even though he was turned to the wall.  He looked at his bed - someone had remade it while he had been gone.  He wondered when that had happened. He crawled in and began his prayers. He was asleep before he finished the Our Father. \par
The light was on the next instant, and all five men were standing there, looking at him. Dawn was promising to come into the window.  They were up and dressed, ready to leave. They waited.\par
He tried to get up. Every muscle and bruise was sore. And it was like someone had tied a rope around the bed.  In fact, that was exactly the case. His face was red with anger as he strained against it.\par
"Oh, let him loose - you've had your fun," one said.  Little John laughed in a hoo-hoo and chuckling way. \par
"Whose idea was that?" Luke asked. A second later he considered that he might have to discuss this with Elder Cassell if he handled it wrong, and controlled it.\par
They unknotted the rope and pulled it off.  \par
"It was Carl's idea."  Several people offered this. Little John hooted again. \par
"Not funny. Who is Carl? Which of you is Carl?" \par
There were some mumbled apologies that seemed insincere and dismissive. He did his best to let it go.\par
Luke got dressed.   They told him not to bother making his bed. He was shown where to put his dirty clothes, and off they went to eat. He'd found socks and underwear in his pile, so he was dressed.\par
Blood sample to the doctor! He hurried over to  the Medical Center, which he could find now, and found a full waiting room...\par
\par
It look Luke most of the morning to figure out there really was no one named Carl. Carl got blamed for things - he never seemed to be around, he made mistakes, never had good ideas, etc.  Humor. What about a poshlost free zone? Was that sign more humor? Was he going to be the butt of every joke today? Is this how they always treated newcomers?  But there were no more jokes on him.\par
On the way to the dining hall they introduced themselves.  His roommate was also Luke, so they could keep all the Lukes in one room. The other Luke was taller than Luke and wider and a few years older.  Little John and David shared one of the other bedrooms, and Matt and Mark were in the other.  'Jonathan and David' was joked about again. Luke thought it was strange to be the smallest man in the trailer.  Usually he was about the largest. He was even taller than his brothers.\par
In the predawn light Luke looked across the quarry to the small rise beyond it. There were people there, dressed in white robes and carrying candle-lanterns.  They were facing east.  He shook his head, thinking he was imagining things.  They were singing "Maranatha" and then "We await the True Dawn".  There was no wind at the moment and they could be clearly heard.\par
"Who are they?" Luke Kikker asked the other Luke.\par
"Those are the end-time saints.  Every day they go out to meet Jesus at the Second Coming, which for some reason they think will be here first. If you point out to them that He didn't come on a particular day, they will tell you that that is one day less, and all the more hope for the next morning.  Most of the time they are normal people, just not around dawn. There's talk of building a chapel there, on the rise - a small one.  Having church in an aircraft hanger does not feel like church.  That would get them out of the weather also."\par
With that, they were at the dining hall. Chicken sausages, pancakes, more sausages, fresh fruit, eggs, biscuits and grits, breads, orange juice, milk, and lots and lots of coffee and tea. No cereals besides the baked.  The place was silent.  Luke loaded up his plate and went to stand behind his chair, like everyone else did.  Someone read Psalm 108, then someone else said grace, and everyone sat and ate in silence, while someone else read the Sermon on the Mount. There was the reading of an epistle: Philippians. Everyone ate silently. It was clear to Luke that they were supposed to reflect silently on what just been read.  Some kind of a monastary, Luke thought.   Or a prison.  He put down that thought.  \par
They passed the white-robed figures with their candle-lanterns on the way to the quarry. They were jubilant, expectant.  Luke had thought they were disappointed. They were of all ages, about thirty or so of them, in their long white robes, each carrying a candle-lantern with the flame now out.  But they were happy. For some reason Little John laughed when he saw them with a big hoo-hoo, like a gorilla. Luke thought about offering him a banana. \par
They met Brian.  He checked their helmets, gloves, boots and overalls for safety concerns. Little John had to retie his shoes and adjust his hemet.  There did not seem to be a whole lot going on behind his pale blue eyes. Luke was fine. \par
Brian brought the sieves out. Today they were all going to work on bedding aggregate for the water lines that were being installed, so the rock had to pass the first sieve and be caught on the second for each kind of gravel.  But there were various gradations and they had to be be mixed in proportion  to get the aggregate  correct, and there would be someone checking the mixture. And the gravel.  If something couldn't be used, it would go in another pile, but still separate from the shale.  Luke noticed a low pile of shale that had obviously been much bigger but someone had come and taken most of it.   Brian explained that it was used to fill in some of the low places that collected water outside the inhabited area.\par
The rock chipper opened up a line of rock about six inches wide and deep and about a hundred feet long along the edge of the quarry on the south side. The rock saw cut down the middle of this.   It was then pickwork, and then it was shoveled into  a rock mixer.  Approved bedding was dumped in the back of a pickup truck.  So there were two lines of men, one with picks and one with shovels, working their way across the bed. The men with the picks pulled the rock back and scattered it for the guys with the shovels.   Luke started off with a pick.  They traded positions every half-hour, and it wasn't long before his arms were sore.  It was another hot day.  Everyone was working silently and hard. He was glad of his new gloves but the overalls were hot. \par
Midmorning breaktime, and there were two women with hot tea and coffee and lemonade and soda on a table under a dining fly, as well as some of the breads that they had had at breakfast. Now it was light enough that Luke could see that before he arrived people had dug out a shallow channel that went to the south and the east from the quarry so that it would drain. The quarry was only about twenty or so feet deep but spread out.  They were planning to block part of the outlet when they were done here and turn it into a pond and raise fish. Some distance behind him was the trailer complex. In between the quarry and that were some small plastic greenhouses. He could see figures moving along, nursing the plants. This reminded him of the settlement in Michigan.  They had many such greenhouses.  All around stretched the flat and open country, with spare topsoil and little grass. In many places, more so than not,    the rock showed through.  There were odd piles of dirt here and there, like someone long ago had scraped up all the topsoil into them.\par
"Where you from?" this was Luke, about the first time he had heard him speak.\par
"Michigan. A closed Epper settlement. I am no longer welcome there."\par
There were nods. "You are welcome here," Mark finally said. "Thanks," Luke replied, and that was that.  They worked with a fury - quickly and intensely - and they did not slow down. \par
Luke was surprised by how much bedding material they had made up until break. "Good job, guys - we are a day ahead of the waterline crew's need. Let's push it to two days before lunch. Amram Boom is going to build us a conveyor this afternoon and he will want some help getting stuff here, but it won't take everyone.  Luke, you keep coming up with ideas, you hear me?"\par
"I hope to." He smiled. "I am surprised that you are crushing rock by hand instead of using a mechanical crusher of some kind."\par
"Like what?  We would like to increase production, believe you me."\par
He explained a jaw crusher, how you put big rock in at the top and it crushed the rock until only small rock came out the bottom. He had seen one in action at a settlement his settlement traded with. "Let's talk to Amram Boom about that after we get the conveyor going," Brian said. "Keep it up." Luke felt like he was earning the respect of these men, which was a good feeling indeed. \par
Lunch came. They were now three days ahead of the waterline crew.  Lunch was cold chicken and potato salad and apple pie and cookies.  There was the same banter as at dinner the day before with the women, only this time the quarrymen joined in. Luke found this very strange because on his settlement, and in the settlements he knew, single men and single women treated each other with decorum, dignity and respect.  There were funny comments, never insulting or rude.  The teasing was mild but never insulting.  They told the girls about the conveyor, and Luke found himself being referred to as "the new genius": what would the new genius like for dessert? Would the new genius like more potato salad?\par
Better yet, there was an "excuse me, I am looking for a Luke Kikker," in a very familiar voice. "Matthew!"\par
"Matthew! It's been ages!"\par
"So it has.  Years.  I heard you were here.  You have grown.  Save me a place, will you? I'll get some lunch here and join you."\par
The chicken was barbecued in a sweet sauce, not like he was used to, but good. The other single quarrymen joined him but left a seat for his brother Matthew.\par
"Well, I am the pharmacist here," Matthew said a minute later. "I see you are in the quarry. That helps keep us from getting water everywhere, the ground is so flat. When it rains it takes it forever to drain. But enough of that.  How are Mama and Papa?"\par
"They are doing well.  Now three of their sons are here, and Abby is a \i jongedamme \i0 over in St. Peter's Setttlement, so I think they feel like empty-nesters. "\par
"The Eppers are getting worse at this heresy business. I mean, you are here now.  I am sad for them but happy for you.  I wonder if they will move down here."\par
"Besides us, all their family and friends are there and they tend to keep a low profile. But when you left, six settlements were without a pharmacist. It didn't slow them down, though, in this business of purifying the faith."\par
"Where's Mark?"\par
"He's in town. He has a business going there.  Maybe he can come over - he's really busy."\par
"How is his - health?"\par
"He's fine, actually.  It's amazing.  Bishop Berg prayed for him and he slowly improved physically and mentally over several months. He used a cane for a while but now it is on display in his business."\par
"So...God heals today."\par
"Yes he does."\par
"Wow. Sounds like we've been missing out."\par
"Yep.  Mark is now coming out here for church, as his testimony of Elder Berg praying for him and him getting better was not welcome at the church in town. "\par
"Not surprising. That used to be Jake Profim's church?"\par
They talked for a while, Luke bringing him up to speed on family news.    Matthew would bring Mark around for lunch tomorrow and they would get caught up even more.  Luke would look forward to it.  They talked until it was time to go. \par
That afternoon Luke was crossing behind Little John.  He didn't realize how far back the big man pulled his shovel, and the handle caught him in the ribs and lifted him. He fell backwards. Little John turned around and tried to help him, but only managed to drop his shovel on one of his feet and step on the other one. \par
Dr. Herzenberg told him he needed to nurse his ankle some and not lift anything heavy for a few days, and then come back and get checked again. If it got worse he needed to come back.\par
Elder Cassell came around. "So you are off quarry duty for a while. Can you ride a horse?"\par
Could he? Really?\par
"You saw the stable and maybe the barn when you arrived, a little ways north of here. We use horses to patrol the borders - there has been some trouble, and we need to establish our presence.  Mainly riding to check the fences, but sometimes there are intruders. You would not be engaging the intruders, just observing them.  Others will deal with them. But you are the right size to deal with one.  We have a Palamino quarter horse stallion named Golden Boy who could carry you.  Our patrols go out for three days for a ninety-mile trip.  We have four patrols and each covers the entire property over two weeks. If there are intruders you walkie-talkie it in to Security. Are you up to it?"\par
"I used to ride messenger-service between settlements. We used horses mainly in the settlement, and only a few people had cars.  I've been around horses all my life. Sure."\par
"Golden Boy is here now.  He was recently acquired - we've just been waiting for God to provide a rider. "\par
"Has anyone ever ridden him?"\par
"No one has tried."\par
Luke thought about it.  Eppers did not break horses. Eppers did not geld the stallions, either. Instead it was a mutually respectful relationship in which the rider gained the trust of the horse, and vice versa.  Epper horses were generally one-rider horses. "This will take some time."\par
Luke went into the cool of the stable for the first time.  Golden Boy stuck his head out at the smell of a stranger and snorted.  He's big, Luke thought, but young. Luke made the clicking sounds that grooms make and approached. Golden Boy picked up his ears at the sight of the carrot that Luke held.  Golden Boy ate it and smelled Luke.\par
Luke did not try to ride him or even lead him by a halter for a week, during which he fed and groomed the horse and slept at first in the stable's hall opposite him, then in his stall.  Golden Boy accepted him and soon whinnied when Luke went to eat or take a shower - most of his time was with the horse. His horse.  Then the day came when Golden Boy allowed Luke to put a halter on him, and then shortly a blanket, then a saddle.  Golden Boy accepted Luke as a rider and they rode around the paddock, then north a little and back. Not many days afterwards he was ready to patrol.  This was the Epper way, to gain the animal's trust and never to use fear or force the horse to do anything. \par
He was paired with Dutch.  Dutch was the most experienced rider and in his forties.  He spoke hardly any English.  He was from a settlement in Oklahoma that spoke Dutch mainly.  They had a number of Cherokees.  Many plant and animal names Dutch knew only the Cherokee or the Dutch for.    Luke spoke no Dutch. At first he gave Luke long speeches in Dutch until he realized Luke had no Dutch.  He resorted to a pidgen Dutch-Cherokee-English using short sentences and many signs.  He gave Luke the walkie-talkie, saying something but making signs that he was supposed to use it.    \par
Luke learned the countryside.  Around the inhabited area it was dead flat, so flat that there were small, shallow pools that lingered for days after a rain.  Some stank when they dried up.  These were where the shale was being dumped from the quarry.  There was a ravine to avoid - Snake Woods - and south of it the country changed to long low flat ridges of prairie, and there was another wood down there along a creek.  North of here there was the flat, open prairie, flatter than most prairie, with trees along the creeks.  In the flattest areas there were mounds that looked like the topsoil had been scraped together long ago, exposing the rock. \par
To the west of Snake Woods there was a shallow valley that fed the deeper ravine, and to the east it flattened out to the flat, soiless land like futher north, only there was a small creek, if you could call it that, that trickled its way across the rock in a system of shallow pools until it found its channel and then went under the highway that marked the east side of the property. \par
They would ride out on Sunday afternoon and return for church on Sunday morning.  Several stone buildings had been constructed in the outlying areas  where food would be placed in vermin-proof containers.  There they would pick up supplies for two or three days.  Those were also to be places they could go in the event of a blizzard, and there was room for hay for the horses if no foraging was available.  But mostly they were out in the elements, rain or shine.  \par
Luke was determined to make this work.  A-rab, Dutch's horse, was bigger and older than Golden Boy.  The two horses sorted out the hierarchy and A-rab was dominant.  There was no aggression after the first three days.  Dutch had said, leet them verk it out, and they did.  Luke was afraid they would injure each other, but it did not happen.\par
A-rab also insisted on the lead, and the way he did this was that if Luke pulled Golden Boy ahead at all, A-rab would come up and bare his teeth at Luke's leg.  Dutch would simply say, "You gotta follow, young fellow."  It was humiliating, but Luke learned to follow. A-rab never actually bit him.  The two horses became friends.  \par
With Dutch and Luke, however, it was different.  Luke would complain of being saddle-sore: he thought they were overriding the horses, or of being bug-bit, or the same food all the time, and Dutch would just shrug his shoulders.  Why he had to be stuck with a fat Dutchman who could not speak English clearly was beyond him.  Sometimes Luke would blow up at Dutch, who would silently listen.  Luke could and did say anything and everything and did, often loudly. Dutch would say, "You done?" and Luke would nod.  As time passed these became fewer and fewer.  They really didn't make much difference, and Dutch never said anything anyway.\par
"You are a fat Dutch boy," he would tell Dutch, when he learned to understand his speech.  There wasn't a lot of it.\par
"Yep, I am fat Dutch boy," Dutch would reply.  It didn't bother him.  Nothing did.  Luke was going crazy and Dutch was unmoved.   They would check the fences. Mile after mile of fence, all in good shape.  There were no intruders.  This was a waste of time.  And this was only the first week out.\par
Dutch was also crazy.  There was a wasp nest in a tree that was hanging down so low that it was at the same level as his face.  Dutch rode right up to it and looked at the wasps from within a foot of the nest before riding on.  They didn't attack him, however.\par
"You are a crazy fat Dutch boy," Luke would then tell him.\par
"Yep, I am crazy fat Dutch boy," he replied.  "But no sting of wasp."\par
"How did you do that?"\par
"Someday you learn," Dutch replied, "Maybe you learn from crazy fat Dutch boy. I learned from a Cherokee, from a crazy Cherokee, how to live in land here. In Oklahoma. Crazy fat Dutch boy lived with the Cherokees for years, he learned many things."\par
As weeks went by, Luke learned how to understand how Dutch spoke.  He did not understand the words as much as what he said and what he did.  Luke understood Golden Boy and he understood A-rab, and he learned to understand Dutch.  And Dutch slowly learned to speak English better, or at least Luke learned to understand him.  Luke learned the names of the stars and the planets and the constellations.  He was not sure whether they were Dutch or Cherokee or English names, and Luke learned to read the sky and what the weather would be.  He learned to spot the tracks of deer and then smaller animals in the grass, where it was, and even on rock.  He learned what plants were edible, and what to avoid.  The silence of the land entered his soul and calmed him.  He became at peace.  He learned to understand the wind as a living thing.  Sometimes it slept and sometimes it was just restless. Wind usually came from the southwest, from Oklahoma, Dutch said, as if that was significant. The Cherokee lived there, and they brought the wind. Sometimes wind came from the northwest.\par
 In the far south land where the grass was tall there were many rabbits, cottontails that would lie still and then when the horses drew near, suddenly bound away with their bright white tails bouncing and glowing, it seemed, and then they would stop and hide their tails, but you would think they had gone on.  Luke would search for the white bouncing dot until he realized this. Dutch said they were tricksters and he told many Cherokee stories about them and about Rabbit, their chief. \par
"Look," Dutch said one day.  "Deer has passed, maybe today."\par
Luke finally could see the grass was a little different.  There were animal trails down here, but sometimes animals would go off alone into the tall grass.  "How do you know it is a deer?"\par
Dutch looked at him.  He got off his horse and walked parallel to the deer-mark, then turned back and mounted A-rab.  "That is how a man walks and leaves a trail." Luke saw the difference. \par
"Must ask why deer went into tall grass," Dutch said. "Look," he pointed at the grass,"that is why."\par
Luke not see any difference. "Someday you see," Dutch said, and rode on. Dutch often did this, and Luke learned to choke his anger.  \par
 In a month Luke could tell how long ago what kind of deer, possum, skunk or fox had walked through the tall grass. He could now look for man-marks.  He learned how a man would walk so that he would not leave a trail, and how to find that kind of trail.  Dutch taught him how a bear would go through the tall grass.  Luke learned what the birds flying over the tall grass meant in regards to the animals below and the weather above.  He hoped for a bear, which Dutch called a \i yonu\i0   but Dutch shook his head.  \par
One day they were riding north along the east side.  They were in the flat rocky land where the water trickled out of Snake Woods. Luke looked as he often did at the highway on the other side of the ditch, where the cars hurtling by on their pavement, so fast.  It was an alien world.  Where were they going? Where had they come from, all of them shut up in their little boxes on wheels? So it seemed to him. \par
Dutch made a clicking sound which meant Luke needed to see what he was looking at.  It was the mark on a rock that concerned him.  Rather, five marks.  It also meant that Dutch knew that Luke had not been paying attention.\par
People were not supposed to be this close to Snake Woods.  These were human  marks - someone had been here this morning, three someones, in fact, two with boots on and one with tennis shoes.  One of the boot-sets was smaller.  Sometimes teenages snuck in to see the snakes in Snake Woods, which was where they were headed. \par
Luke looked in all directions while Dutch watched the ground as they slowly rode, following the footsteps. There was a sharp break between the rocky ground and the tall grass that marked the beginning of Snake Woods.  The patrols never went into the tall grass here.  Luke could clearly see that someone had walked into the tall grass, though, in two locations. He also saw several snakes on one of the outlying trees, waiting for birds.  One flicked its tongue at him.\par
"Security," Luke said into his walkie-talkie. \par
"Security."\par
"Patrol three, now on north-east side of Snake Woods.  Looks like intruders have entered Snake Woods.  We will look for their exit point."\par
"Negative, patrol three. Do not engage. Pull back to out of sight and wait.  They may be hiding from you. Bad place to hide, there. We will send a jeep with a medical team."\line\par
"Copy. We'll tell you when we get to an observation point."\par
"Over 'n out."\par
They turned and trotted north.  Suddenly behind them was a cry for help. Several cries for help. They turned again and there were three teenagers, two supporting the smaller third teenager as they tried to get out of the tall grass.  The middle one looked very ill and could hardly walk.\par
Luke got out his walkie-talkie.\par
"Security.'\par
"Here."\par
"Looks like we have a snakebite here - they are coming out - no, now two are down, the third is trying to pull on the other two - no, now he also is down."\par
"On our way. Do not, repeat, do not enter the tall grass."\par
"Roger. Out."\par
Teenagers out to see the thrill of Snake Woods.  Dutch and Luke rode up to the edge of the tall grass.  The three were lying moaning about fify feet in.  Dutch and Luke could do nothing for them. The grass was too wet to burn - it always was that way here, it seemed - \par
"Patrol Three," cracked on the walkie talkie.\par
"Patrol three here."\par
"We have an evac chopper from Nicholls on the way. ETA five minutes.  They will be looking for you."\par
"Hope they have a rope or something to pull these kids out."\par
"They will."\par
The intruders seemed to have attracted the attention of a great number of snakes.  The grass was moving with them, but they did not come near the edge.  There were some in the scattered trees, watching.\par
The chopper came in from the east.  Instead of landing it hovered above tree-top level.  They dropped pieces of plywood next to the teenagers and men rappelled down to them with stretchers.  They put the teenagers quickly on the stretchers and then the chopper lifted , pulling the men and the stretchers up and in.  The plywood had given them a safe delay to do their work.  A minute later and the chopper could only be heard as it went into Nicholls General. \par
"Doubt they make it," Luke said.\par
"Yep."\par
They traced the trail back to where the teenagers had crossed the fence. Here they met the jeep.\par
Together they looked at the fence, which was only three strands of barbed wire at this point and easily crossed. The teenagers doubtless had walked down here from Nicholls and crossed.  People were usually smart enough to stay out of the woods when they did so, but not these people.  Security noted the location.  "There is only so much we can do. We'll put up two more strands of barbed wire here and another warning sign. We'll also lengthen the fence.  People in Nicholls will of course hear of this, and maybe they will stop coming out.  I hope we don't have to have a full-time guard down here.  At least you guys came along at the right time."\par
\par
\par
\par
\line\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 