{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9\par
Deep in the labyrinth of trailers, John Cassell felt the brisk late-spring wind as it reached down in gusts and  reminded him that winter was not long past; it still had power and would come again. Sharp, strong gusts shook the trailers and lifted his grey beard when his hand was not holding it down.  Earlier the land had been veiled in a heavy fog, but as they walked the wind blew that away leaving that sort of chill blue sky that reminded him of the coldest days in Alaska.   His assistant pressed his notepad against himself when it was not in use to keep the wind from grabbing the papers and sending them off to the northeast, never to be seen again.  John nodded to come and they walked forward, staggering in the wind sometimes when it reached down between the trailers. Sometimes it would find puddles of water from last night's rain and fling them into the air, even pushing drops of water up the sides of  trailers and sometimes hitting the two men. John blew his nose. Without a word his assistant handed him a new clean handkerchief.  John gave him the used one and it vanished into some pocket or bag.  Just enough drippage to be annoying.  When he spoke, his voice was thick and his tongue felt twice its normal size and tasted of mucus. One more reason for going somewhere where he would have to talk little. He'd been fine when he woke up; this had settled in after breakfast slowly and if it kept up he would welcome an afternoon or more in bed, a rarity indeed. \par
He was glad of the quiet, of the peace.  Down south the office was extremely busy, but he had put off this trip too long.  The office was always extremely busy, despite measures he had taken to delegate.  CJ had been on duty behind the desk, CJ who could handle anything.  He was confident things would be done right if he left, but then there was Aaron Boom - he had wanted a long discussion about something called solar panels and silicon, things John knew nothing about but Aaron loved the details, and then five others were waiting in line, and John had put off this trip north long enough.  He'd asked them to see CJ, and additionally these new people had shown up.  New people were always showing up.  Others had seen him go to the office and headed his direction.  Either he left then or he would never get out of there. \par
During his escape Phyllis had made an appearance.  She was an American charismatic "prayer-warrior" who was always submitting long, pointless and strange words, visions, dreams, impressions and prophetic songs to him for submission to the Council of Twelve per directive to her personally.  That had put a stop to what some called her trailer park prophecy: on arrival two months ago she had gone around giving people at random prophetic words and sometimes she had gotten into he said/she said situations.  Here prophecy was treated seriously: if God was speaking, leadership got involved.  Most of Phyllis's words were pure rot.  John despised fortune cookie style prophecies, parking lot prophecies, and  human wishful speaking purportedly being the voice of the Lord. There had been way too much of that from these American charismatics - people who had had no connection to the Eppers or their severe, solemn ways until they had arrived.  He knew the Lord's voice when he heard it. He had a desire for a higher standard, a purer prophetic word, but he didn't want to choke out the gift either.   He had spoken to the Council of Twelve more than once on the need to restrict  it, although some people, sometimes, got it right. It was good this matter was in the hands of the pastors - he had no patience for it. And Phyllis was right sometimes, but  the sheer volume of words hid the anything of the Lord.  In her two months here she had generated thousands of pages of prophecy, longer than the Bible, and most of it was useless.  She had once or twice been right on the money, but then there was so much she generated that she had to be right once in a while.  She had handed John a piece of paper, now folded in his back pocket.  At least it was one piece of paper, not a whole sheaf of paper.  Some of the older, wiser women in women's ministry were working with her, but whether she was listening was another question. She got "tingles" when the Word of the Lord was about to envelop her.  It wasn't automatic writing but it suggested to some that there were in fact psychological or medical or spiritual problems at work here.  One piece of paper was a vast improvement.  Probably it was one long run-on sentence mostly about her feelings and what a great thing God had told her.  Some of her words had had her feelings and references to the mighty revelation but left out that revelation.  She'd thought about going with Ir ha'Aloha but had chosen to stay here.  Or, they had asked her to stay here. In either case, here she was.  One of her mentors had gone with Ir ha'Aloha and John wondered if that would increase the logorrhea.\par
John came to the north end of Ir ha'Aloha's trailers and the beginning of the deserted ones. The difference was staggering.  The ones north of here had all been deserted for years, the ones south continually inhabited and cared for.  For ten years or more people had taken doors, windows, roof vents, plumbing, and various other pieces of the twenty-year old trailers at the north end to repair the inhabited trailers.   Ir ha'Aloha said they had taken none - they'd moved to a small town in Kansas that had lost population and would welcome them but had no trailers. They had been honorable about the trailers they'd lived in, so they had said and John had spot-checked.  They had only taken furnishings and household goods, leaving the trailers ready for the next people, as others had done before them, so here was a clear dividing line between trailers with doors, windows, skirting, and steps, and gutted, rusting, windowless, doorless trailers without cabinets, lights, plumbing or even wiring that the wind blew through, shaking them and working at freeing the siding.  Some of these trailers had been like this for fifteen years now, when the population had dropped and people moved further south.  His silent amenunsis followed him as he wove his way north. With a shock and a sneeze he realized he hadn't been up here in years. The abandoned trailers had really deteriorated far more than he had expected.   He was now near the east edge and could see out into the open between the trailers. They had to watch their feet at unmarked utility trenches, most of which were full of gravel but some of which were empty.  They were easily stepped over, anyway - if found. But still, like for everywhere on the \i midbar\i0 , no plant had ever managed to take root and grow.  Rock and gravel, grey never broken by green for the whole flat area. \par
Ahead,  cotton-tail hopped out of nowhere, sat for a second and looked them over, then hopped across the way and disappeared under a trailer.  One minute later a fox followed more quickly and dove after the rabbit.  There was not enough grass here to feed a rabbit, but there was enough rabbit to feed a fox.  That rabbit must have wandered in from greener pastures. \par
"Apples" said a wooden sign lying on the ground, still fresh-looking like it had been painted yesterday.  It had hooks on top from when it was hung up, surprisingly unweathered, the hooks probably stainless steel and the wood heavily varnished, and the apple was clearly a delicious, painted realistically in about five colors and the lettering was green on white, suggestive of leaves. The wind was attempting to get under the sign, but it was very heavy and close to the rock all around.  A shame it had been abandoned like this.  This stirred a memory of Shaphan something-or-other - the last name escaped him -  his apple stand had stood right about here, when the north end was full of people.  You could barely walk through here then because of all the kids, the stands, the stacked cages of chickens and rabbits. and the goats and sheep and pigs in pens, as well as the adults in their long grey coats, still feeling the pain of exile, few speaking English, all in a strange country for the first time, thrust out of the homeland they had lived in for many years.   But they had moved to a settlement fifteen years ago and this had been silent since.  Odd that the sign had not been taken, either by Shaphan himself, or his settlement.  The sign  was still good. He told his assistant to note the sign and its location.  It should be picked up and put in the Mathom House until a use was found for it.  It might even look nice on a wall in a dining hall or even a house.  They'd found other things scattered, all noted now, whose destiny would be decided.  Until then they would go into the Mathom House, a former B-52 hanger relocated from Whiteman Air Force Base.  That relocation had happened even before he had gotten here. He'd been here twenty-two years, not a one of which had been easy. He was getting old, he thought, as the cold seeped into his bones.  He sneezed again.  He had not been young when he got here. Melancholy set in with the illness, the wind and the trailers.  What could be done with this place?  What had they really achieved in all these years? Some things, but far beyond anyone's hopes for the place.  But a lot of those hopes had been unrealistic anyway. The present reality was not something to hang on forever.  Someday he would be gone, whether by call elsewhere or through the grave. \par
Rust and desolation.  The flooring in all these trailers had deteriorated with the weather, being composition board, and had fallen, fragmented, and then devoured by the ever-hungry wind. The wind moaned through the trailers, shaking the siding.  Some pieces flapped in the wind.  Perhaps they could be taken apart and the rest of the trailers used elsewhere? None had actually collapsed on themselves, but a number looked like they had no reason not to.  They really should not remain like this. A screw popped out and hit John's leg with a bounce and a sharp pain.  No blood, he saw as he looked down. He watched the wind push the screw along, down into a trench, then airblast it out of the trench and under a skirtless trailer, and after that he lost sight of it.  Much of this siding needed to be removed before the wind did their work for them.  Another thing to add to the list of urgently needed tasks, a list that always was longer as the capable formed into settlements and left.  He was left with some people no one wanted, whether ill without relatives or incompetent in skill or by temper  mainly, plus a few determined folk who felt called to help the unfortunate souls who had nowhere to go, people who had themselves been exiled had exiled these people or felt called to help bring new people in and integrate them into settlements.  There was a hard core of useless fools here now, and more had been banished than remained here. New people showed up all the time.  If they were Eppers they would form a settlement and leave.  Otherwise they would stay here.  The competent were overworked, even by Epper standards of fourteen hour days, working through the night on top of that once or twice a week, and only Sundays off. \par
 These trailers had been mercilessly cannibalized by those further south and by other settlements on the property.  Some were down to the steel frame, and there were even a few frames that had sections removed.  He didn't mind that at all, except it would have been nice to have been told, but then a lot happened around here that he was never told about.  De Le Grande's principle of extreme delegation had set in.  People told him things only when they needed to.  He, the administrator, was often on a need-to-know basis.  People came to him when they thought he needed to know something, often when it was far too late to do anything about the particular problem.  A settlement was a primary culture, to borrow language from his friend the former Bishop Berg: in one, everyone knew everything and everyone, and you got help from other people you knew.  But this place was too big.  It was still trying to act like a primary culture, but it was so large not everyone knew everyone else.  They'd started forming settlements, and that had solved a lot of the problem by breaking up the larger culture into manageable bits.  Now no one kept track of the number of settlements on Profim Properties, because that would be to commit the presumption of David. That still left the trailer maze and a few other buildings here, the row of massive hangers and some greenhouses, actually more than the 'headquarters' could handle.   They'd traded off the stone in the houses that had been built here.  The hangers were showing their age. Nothing was new, nothing sparkling, mostly just barely functional, held together with duct tape, prayer and chewing gum.  It kept them humble, anyway.\par
"Take a note to Aaron Boom. He and his people need to go through the empty trailers and come up with some sort of plan for disposing of these trailers. And a catalog of what is still here and can be used to fix the inhabited trailers. Then we can advertise the material to the other settlements.  It's a resource, not a problem."  The amanuensis nodded. John was aware that this settlement was regarded as a charity case.  Most settlements maintained a healthy balance of trade in complex bartering arrangements, but this first settlement did not.  But everyone had once lived here, this was the first, so there was a sense of obligation.  At the same time they could not be too much of a basket case.  Settlements that did not work dissolved.   This settlement was perpetually borderline, if you evaluated it as a normal settlement.  Yet they had directly spawned over twenty settlements in thirty years, this was the intake point and if there was any headquarters for the whole property, this was it. John smiled at the idea of it being a headquarters of anything. But the daughter settlements had also spawned settlements, some on land here and others elsewhere, and no one had bothered to inform him, anyway, or anyone at "headquarters." John checked himself: his mind was wandering.  That happens when you are sick. He'd had a cold two years earlier.  One six years earlier.  He checked himself again.  Back to work...\par
Clearly there had been trailers here, at the far north end, but even the frames were gone. He could see marks on the rock from where the leveling pads and the tie downs had been.  There were stains on the rock from the honeybucket days - that took John way back - and cuts in the rock from the utility trenches.  The trenches themselves were now empty, the lines removed.    You would expect dirt in the trenches but not here - the wind had blown many of them clean, even blowing out the gravel like from a pressure washer,  and kept them that way. This was before someone had had the bright idea of putting the utility lines down on the rock and then adding gravel to cover them, then compacting the gravel and maintaining it, which had been done farther south.  That had made all the trenches shallower by several feet. The utility installations had become more sophisticated as they worked their way south, one reason everyone wanted to move south.  He seemed to remember the first, northernmost trailers had never received waterlines.  He tried but failed to remember what had been in these trenches. Where was his memory? Somewhere behind a fog.  Rain last night and the trenches were empty.  Someone had figured out how to keep them drained, because water in the trenches did not trouble the utilities further south.  Over there, he thought, was where they used to park the water truck.  Long lines of women had held their two-gallon buckets in each hand, talking, always talking in line, their children hanging on to them or tugging at them as need was.  Later it had been the teenagers sent out to do this work, and that had not worked so well, so they had sent \i jongedamen \i0 to do it on top of their other work.  And then they had all gone, leaving silence. \par
Natural gas.  This settlement had obtained natural gas from Kfar HaTevya, who had located and tapped into a natural gas field here on the property and bartered it with other settlements.  But originally they had used propane tanks, now long gone, and Kfar HaTevya was learning to compress natural gas as a trade item with other settlements. Epper ingenuity at work.  Many, though, disliked natural gas because of the thermal signal and they were looking for ways to make it look like they were not there, visually, thermally, and in all ways. Eppers disliked outsiders knowing they were there, and for years small planes had sometimes flown over the property without explanation, sometimes making patterns as if they were doing aerial mapping.  The trailer area had always gotten the most attention. Eppers were called the Hidden People for a reason.  People spoke of camouflage, even of moving settlements underground.  The limestone was good and the limestone mines were dry. Why not? Being unfindable had historically served them very well.  And being found had always been bad news, for example when an army moved through what they had thought was empty ground and discovered an Epper settlement.  Many a settlement had gone underground for its own protection, and here the rock was very promising.  They were working out the details: light, heat, ventilation, thermal signatures - with modern technologies people were concerned with this - as well as plumbing.  \par
What a day, several days, rather that was, when the trailers had arrived.  He had not been on campus, and they had offloaded the trailers from a train and just parked them randomly if fairly compactly.  By the time John had gotten back it was too late - people had moved out of the tents into the trailers and refused to leave so he could have a nice organized town of rows of well-spaced trailers.  The trailers were where the drivers had left them. Moving them would have required more tractors to pull them and they had been left in such a way that you could only move them in a certain sequence.   There had been a scramble to tie them down and get skirting.  No joke when you have 6,000 people suddenly in trailers.  But even rocking in the wind was better than life in the tents, and if you put stones in the right places, the rocking stopped .  That had been the end of the tent city.  And it had needed all of his self control not to call Jake Profim and point out that he could not send all these trailers without skirting, tie downs, steps, utility connects and a host of other things in order to make them functional. John imagined the phone call: Jake had known nothing about it, and he had, in fact, done exactly that. He had bought trailers, and arranged delivery. No one had told him about these things as being needed. What did he need? And the supplies slowly trickled in. People made do. No trailers had blown away in the wind, anyway, and the skirting was in place.  everywhere before winter hit, which was a good thing.  That first winter many a trailer had a propane heater; some had wood stoves, many had stoves that had previously served in the tents.  They were Epper-tough.  They survived. Some had left, but that winter had convinced him that these American charismatics were a lot tougher than he had thought.  They had gained his respect. \par
He looked around.  Here the \i midbar\i0  ended and north of him was the old burnt-out Mueller farmstead.  To the northeast, the burnt-out barn and stable. Burnt wood was still on the ground, none vertical, only the heaviest, charred members that the wind could not carry.   To the northwest, the water tower near the settlement of Ir Hamayim stood above the horizon, the settlement itself hidden by the curve of the earth, and closer, the old metal frame stood naked, the frame of the old north dining hall.  He saw where the houses had stood, the ones that were later disassembled and the material used elsewhere.  That all brought memories, but he needed to be in the present. \par
He had not given the new people who had arrived this morning much thought.  His attention elsewhere, but the picture grew in his mind of tough lookng men had straggled in on foot shortly after everyone in Security had left to deal with the cattle out west.  Security had thought they'd be back in an hour or less. Their timing was terrible.  They had come from Nicholls one or two at a time at long intervals, ten in total.   He'd figured CJ and the few who were left could handle them, so he had gone north.  The more he thought about the new people the more worried he had become.  They were extraordinarily  unwashed, disheveled, extremely dirty and smelled of beer. Avaricious. Tigerish.    How had he missed that?  Illness aside, he was too busy.  He reconsidered his decision to come up here now uneasily. What if there had been more coming? He could not be everywhere, could not do everything, could not keep all his bases covered.\par
He was now in what they called the Promenade - a half-mile long stretch where by some fluke there were no trailers blocking the view and it was fairly open, with the trailers crowding in on all sides. There were several of these promenades that had started as accidents in the way the trailers had been scattered and they made travel quicker. The runner  Elesah Brummel, fifteen, who had gained his height and weight, approached, easily seen at a distance.   A Mr. Johnson of the Johnson Bank of Harrisonville had arrived and wanted to see him. John nodded and frowned inwardly. He knew who Johnson was.  John had heard that his family had tried repeatedly to buy the land, that the Johnson Bank was behind several lawsuits launched against Profim Properties, that in all likelihood they were the ones who had sent men onto the land to spy on what was happening here, that they were the ones who had harassed the Mueller family for years to acquire the land.  John was not sure why, he had heard rumors, but this would give him an opportunity to size the man up and see if there was a way to resolve whatever the problem was.   They had not met, only exchanged letters, but there was something about the whole thing that made John's skin crawl.  He had not looked forward to meeting Johnson two weeks from now, even more so today. He'd agreed to meet in two weeks partly to get him to stop bothering him. On arrival today Johnson had been told to wait at the office trailer for him, per standard protocol. Profim Properties contained some dangers and it was not safe for strangers to wander around without guidance. \par
Here was a bloody patch with rabbit fur, and the blood looked like the rabbit had been dragged out of sight under a trailer.  There was simply too much for the rabbit to have been bitten and escaped.  He sneezed again.  Death in a fallen world was all too casual. \par
He looked down at himself - dirty, ragged jeans, ripped-up, greasy shirt from crawling under several trailers to look at the steel, partly wet, his old denim jacket that had been patched and repatched.  He had determined the nature and extent of several messes that turned out to involve human waste and grease. He had no time to change.  He had an almost-incapacitating headache and a general sense of fatigue.  That nose drip.   Was he becoming ill?  Any other visitors he would have declined, but this Mr. Johnson was pushy and it would probably take longer to get rid of him without the tour than with the tour.  John had offered to give him a tour. Johnson had originally requested permission to send crews of people throughout the property searching for the mythical Blythewood treasure, which was absurd, and most of the settlements didn't even want their presence known.  He'd negotiated it down to this tour of the trailer area, but John was guessing it would be an opportunity for Johnson to pressure him into allowing search teams everywhere, which the Council of Twelve would never allow.  John had finally said yes in what he now regarded as a moment of weakness.   John had pressing problems to deal with and he did not like interruptions. There were too many already.  He would have liked to have planned out a tour and made sure it was ready, with facts ready and people in place to talk to the visitor.  Nothing had been done, something that made John wince in frustration.  This was more than inconvenient, crossing into rudeness. He'd hoped Johnson would leave him alone for two weeks, at least. Nope. It had only been a day since he had offered Johnson a tour \i in two weeks \i0 via letter, meaning he must have set out to come on receipt of the letter. Or maybe he hadn't even seen the letter.  \i  \i0 John was repeating himself.  He disliked internal repetition because it was inefficient, and as an administrator he seldom had time to think through things twice.  He needed to think once about something and be done with it, then move on.  \par
He moved north again as he looked at the trailers and their remains.  He was now at the northeast corner.  Today Johnson had shown up uninvited.  He could wait at the office for John to return. John was not at all looking forward to this tour. The runner had verified, per instruction to all visitors, that Johnson had been told to wait.  John had no plans to hurry his tour up here to please Johnson.  But perhaps he should, and then resume the inspection some other time.  He had about fourteen trailers to look at briefly, mostly down to the frame.\par
John was thinking about this when an ostentatiously expensive looking black sedan appeared on the flat outside the trailers and pulled in as far as it could without hitting a trench. No Epper would own such a vehicle. Once upon a time posters had been all over the place 'Poshlost Free Zone', to remind people of what to avoid, especially some of the overly-westernized newcomers.  That car was \i poshlost\i0 .  Rank ostentatious \i poshlost\i0 .  It could only be Johnson following the runner.  And here they were in the worst part of the property. He was back, somehow, at the far northeast corner. \par
The driver's door opened and highly shined black dress shoes met the rock. Above them were grey pin-striped pants and a business suit above the door, with the driver looking sourly at John.  The driver motioned and a professionally if severely dressed young woman got out the other side and looked at Johnson.  They shut their respective car doors firmly at the same time, with a non-nonsense air of command,  and walked forward and met at the front of the car as if this was a rehearsed dance or something.  They looked down at the trench at their feet, and then up at John together. It was absurd. Then the driver imperiously raised his hand and used his forefinger to call John over. Poshlost.  The sense of absurdity vanished in this man's air of power and authority, the sort one never mocks. \par
The driver was about sixty years of age, tall, thin, erect, with a no-nonsense look that suggested he intended to dominate any discussion or situation he might find himself in, that he did not countenance disagreement and was likely to express anger without hesitation, whether real or feigned - feigned in order to control someone. They belonged in a New York City skyscraper type business meeting involving power and money, not here. New York City, by Epper consensus, was proverbial poshlost, although no Epper that he had known had ever actually been there. With a shock John realized what the place looked like at the moment through Johnson's eyes.  The wind continued to moan through the desolate trailers. It was even stronger when you got out of the trailer labyrinth.  His second shock was becoming aware of what he himself looked like in their eyes.  Neither smiled. Johnson's eyes were hard.   John was amazed: the man expected him to be intimidated by his wealth and power.  He was on the wrong road to incite intimidation.  And there really was no reason John could think of for that hardness.  \par
John hadn't moved.  The driver was now annoyed, and he waved John over impatiently. John walked over, crossing the trench easily. He felt like a disobedient dog whose owner was pulling the leash, as if he followed the worldly system.  John pushed down the surprising feeling and the annoyance.  'If someone compels you to go one mile, go with them two,' came to mind, 'and how much more a hundred feet?'\par
"John Cassell," he said, offering a hand and smiling, more from self-discipline and tact than any affection.  Some people did exist who were hard to love.  This one was also made in the image of God and so was someone he was required to love.  He chose to love him.  John looked down and realized he had grease on his hand. He pointed it out with an embarrassed smile. \par
This was ignored, not passively, but brazenly, making sure John knew it was happening. \par
"Johnson," the other said in staccato, returning neither the hand nor the smile,"I would like a tour to see how I could help. She's nobody. No one. Ignore her," Johnson said, jerking his thumb at the young woman while looking at John.  John looked at her, but she looked away.  No eye contact. Johnson was clearly not here to help.  Perhaps John could change that? He doubted it. He had as total a dislike for Johnson as he had ever had for anyone.  But still, he was created in the image of God.  Still, John was tempted to just tell these people to leave. But would they? And if not, then what? He had no backup here. \par
The young lady - there was something about here that said woman more than lady, but John was attempting to be charitable, the difference being a lack of any sense of innocence or dignity about her that John would identify with the term lady -frowned as she looked away and around at the trailers. A crow landed, jauntily hopped towards them, cocked its head to the side, then cawed once as if in dismissal,  and flew off.  Somehow that increased the sense of desolation.  Something was wrong here.  These people would never provide any help.  Why were they really here?  But he had to be polite, give them the benefit of the doubt, act charitably.  Johnson spat and watched with satisfaction as the wind picked up his spittle and took it out of sight. \par
"Spit," he told his woman, master to slave.  Instantly she turned and spat without changing her expression, but it didn't go anywhere near as far.\par
"Hah," said Johnson in triumph, and turned back to John. \par
"Quite a place you have here."\par
"It has its charms."\par
Johnson looked at the burnt out farmstead, the burnt barn and stable, the trailer frames. He turned his eyes back to John with a strange sense of triumph and smirked.  The arsonist or arsonists had never been caught.  That had been years ago.  Did Johnson have something to do with it?  He looked awfully pleased with himself.  "Charms, you say," he said.  Obviously he thought the idea was funny.   Was that all to it, or was there more here? \par
"Let's meet at the office trailer down south," John suggested, "It's easy to find."\par
"We're here already, so start the tour," Johnson replied. It was a command, not a request, and John had to resist the sudden urge to simply obey it.\par
"I would prefer to start it at the office trailer. There is information there I could show you, such as maps. Otherwise you will find it hard to get a -"\par
"Maps, huh? Any showing treasure?"  Johnson was amused enough that he laughed at his own unfunny joke.  \par
"No, but just our overall layout.  It's a map we give new people at orientation.  I can answer questions there that I cannot answer here."\par
Johnson frowned.  He thought a minute unhappily before replying, as if he was not used to contradiction. "Let's. I was there before.   Those people are worthless. Worthless.  I was not impressed - I was expecting to find you there, and I had to follow that fellow to find you. They said you "went north" which was extremely unhelpful. Rude people, inconsiderate morons.  But I did find you, despite everything. Who is the runt? Your nobody?"\par
"He is my assistant, and not a runt."  John didn't appreciate the office staff being insulted.  He didn't know what had happened, but he could guess who had actually been rude down there. \par
"Whatever."\par
"Sorry about the grease.  I was looking at some of our trailers - but certainly." But they were already backing their limo out and heading south.  No doubt they would arrive before he did.  John hoped CJ and the others could handle this guy until he could make it down there, which would take about ten minutes, assuming he was not intercepted by something urgent on the way. He must have stopped in there, otherwise no runner would have made it up here.  Was Johnson checking on them telling him that John was up here?  Probably.  Johnson seemed like he trusted no one. \par
Grace, Lord, grant us grace.  His assistant handed him a clean handkerchief.  \par
He was in the middle of Ir ha'Aloha's former trailers when Myra Brot  met him.  The teenager reported that the newcomers had gotten into the beer in the east dining hall and were currently sitting around and guzzling it.  They had no self-control. They were also uncouth.  Where was Security?  John told her. John reproached himself as he walked south.  He told Myra to walk with him.   \par
"I do not like these men," she said, and she took out an eight inch carving knife from somewhere in her clothes, looked at the edge, and then made it vanish again,"No one is around. I feel like the place has been invaded."   And she had not met Johnson. \par
"We have been through far worse," John told her. She nodded,"Aren't you about to start \i jongedamme \i0 training?"\par
"With Evangelina Schmidt in two weeks," Myra said, "I'm on dining hall duty until then. Mother says it will help."\par
 John nodded.  The hard work in the dining hall would help toughen her up. The dining hall crew would helpfully make everything a lot harder for Myra, because some held that \i jongedamme\i0  training was a lot softer these days than in the good old days. Women were said to be self-indulgent, spoiled, they kept filthy houses and even watched television and indulged themselves with expensive clothing, even more than one piece of jewelry, ostentatious furnishings and self-ornamentation beyond the will of God and man. Not fit wives and mothers for Epper men and children.  But then how many Eppers were on the dining hall crew now?  Most of the crew he'd known had left with Ir ha'Aloha. There had been two hundred and sixty five mouths that had eaten once or more a day here, and there were one hundred forty some left, he had been told.  Many people fixed their own meals. He wasn't sure how many dining hall workers were left, but many of course had gone with Ir ha-Aloha.  Myra might have it easy. She could be tough on the Americans. Eppers tended to view Americans as lazy, spoiled, self-indulgent, weak, scatter-brained selfish immature people, although there were always exceptions among the Americans.  A lot of that opinion was on the basis of experience. Eppers were raised with an extreme work ethic, and unless you were raised on a farm, you probably would take a long time to adapt to Epper ways. Myra was Epper-raised, God-fearing and strong.  The last thing you would every say about her was that she was spoiled. \cf1\par
\cf0 As the three entered the inhabited area he became aware of an unusual silence. Where was everyone?  Not everyone had moved.  There were signs these trailers were currently inhabited, but trailer after trailer was empty.  They were usually brimming with kids, and there were outside toys neatly arranged as Eppers would do so along the skirting of the trailers - hoops and stilts, even some balls, although many Eppers frowned on playing with balls as a frivolity.  They had gone somewhere, and would come back. Someone had opened all the chicken and rabbit cages, whose former residents could be seen here and there. Here was a ball that someone had slashed.  John picked it up and looked at the deflated leather ball.  That had to have been intentional.  He carefully placed it in its row with some other toys and continued south.  \par
Here was one of the newcomers.  He was sitting on a trailer step. Beside him was a dead rabbit.  He was choking the one he was holding, and he had another a live one pressed under his left foot to prevent its escape. \par
"Are those your rabbits?"\par
He snorted. "They are now."  John frowned.\par
"I don't care," the man said, "I will go where I want. I will take what I want," He shrugged at John. Then he leered at Myra in a way that knotted John's stomach. \par
John looked at him.  "That is not a wise way to live," he said. \par
The man got up, his breath, body odor and size towering over John, "Is that so?"\par
"Have you eaten?" John asked him,"it wasn't a threat.  Have you eaten?"\par
"I'll find some food around here somewhere.  It's none of your ---- business," the man said.  Security should be back soon.\par
"Well, have a good day. Talk to you later," John said.  The man only looked at him as he squeezed his rabbit.  There were beer bottles next to him, empty ones.  They looked a lot like those used in the dining halls.  John would be glad when Security returned. \par
As John went south he encountered more and more of these people. The ten had obviously not been all of them.  Where were they from? Why were they here? Further south they were more intoxicated and he saw fewer capable of chasing a chicken or rabbit.  But there were dead rabbits and chickens.  Most of the live chickens had flown up on the trailer roofs to protect themselves, only to be blown off and down into the waiting arms of these men.  They broke the chickens' necks and cast them aside. \par
"Pay them no mind," he told Myra.  They eyed her and some comments were made in her direction.  For their sakes John hoped they stayed away from her.  It was more than likely that one blade was not the only one she had.\par
 John remembered this was the day people had gone over to pray-in Kfar Sde - the new settlement was showing off what they had built and it was a cross between an open house, a prayer gathering and a party, complete with gifts from here and other settlements.  They were an hour's walk away.   \par
John automatically counted twenty-five and wondered where the rest were - probably scattered among the trailers. He passed them one and two at a time.  They were obviously drunk in that stage where irrational hostility might break out at any second.  One belched loudly at him and the others guffawed.  \par
It was clear these new people were not used to Epper beer, whoever they were. It was far stronger than American beer and often was diluted before drinking.  They were wild-haired unshaven drunken bums, that is what they were, unwashed, rude, drunk as a skunk, sitting on trailer steps, puking beer and passing out in the street, mainly middle aged men and older, fouling and killing the place of the godly.  Those who lived here sought God, His ways, and to please Him.  In contrast - where were they from? Why were they here? He tried to ask one, but he just cursed, and then got up and followed John. He deeply regretted going north - he should have stayed here and kept some Security personnel.\par
"Yes, write that down," he told his amaneunsis after hearing a particularly shocking description of his mother.  That got two or three of them up and following John, arguing with each other nastily, cursing and spilling their beer. A dead rabbit sailed past John's head, but after that they did not follow him any more.\par
Johnson had already arrived at the office trailer in his limo.  He and the young lady were talking in the car until he got out again and frowned at the drunks.  The young nameless lady got out to catcalls, offers and lewd comments. Johnson returned such a sneer that the comments stopped.   It was clear Johnson was having second thoughts about visiting a bunch of beaten up trailers inhabited by drunken bums.  \par
John made his way through what was turning into a crowd and came up to Johnson.\par
"Losers," Johnson said,"this is a dog eat dog world, Darwin was right - survival of the fittest, meaning me.  But Johnson Bank has a long history of helping those who cannot help themselves, even though, really, they should just be left to die or whatever else they can do, if anything, and leave the earth to those of us who have the power to hold it."\par
"Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the world," John replied.\par
"Riiiiight," Johnson said, with a mocking sneer, "The guy who said that got himself crucified."\par
John could think of no comeback.   \par
"Shall we?" Johnson said, gesturing towards the office trailer. It was far more an order than a suggestion.  That was the second time he'd done that and somehow it really irked John.  He summoned patience. \par
 John  opened the door a little too widely, the wind helping, and  forgetting what he always warned people, of course it came off its hinges and almost knocked him over. He reset it and smiled.   That door was on the list of things that needed fixing. Usually he remembered, but not this time.  People were careful, so usually this door was not a concern. The sneeze while he opened it had not helped. \par
"Write a note and get it to the appropriate person," John told his amaneunsis, who nodded and wrote. It was far from the first note about this door. \par
They were barely inside when Johnson cleared his throat and sounded like he was reciting a set speech: "I would like to say that we at Johnson Bank understand that you have some needs.  We would like to help. Where shall we start?"  It did not at all fit him, and his tone was off, and neither did it fit his face.  It was altogether fake.  Something about him left John absolutely cold.  There was an undertone that John did not like.  Throughout the conversation that followed, John had the feeling that Johnson was probing for his weakness, and he had an uncanny knack for putting his finger on one in a most painful way, although never in any way that John could point to without it seeming like he was oversensitive. John was oversensitive - Johnson had arrived at the worst possible time.  This was the first time they had had to deal with a group of surly drunkards.  And Security was gone.  And so were the people.  And he was ill.  \par
The  old metal desk that dominated the living room of the trailer, once upon a time a desk that had been used in World War I if not before, was now covered with large cardboard boxes. Cardboard boxes everywhere.  Each said "Rocks" on the ends in nice neat capitals.\par
John smiled. "These aren't rocks- someone is just reusing the boxes.  Look," he said and opened the box.  It contained a small number of fist-sized rocks, each carefully bedded in a twisty sort of wheat pasta.  Why? When he had left the office trailer before heading north, no one had said anything about boxes arriving.  Nor had any been there, even in his remotest dream.  He liked the office trailer to be kept free of everything except what was absolutely necessary.  Boxes belonged in the mathom house, on shelves, not in the office trailer.  This would be remedied immediately.  He forced himself to remain calm. Some settlement, somewhere, had ordered pasta and these rocks were some sort of specialty item. But something told John not to mention that there were settlements here beside the one they were in.  Eppers did not like it when attention was brought to them, especially when they had not asked for it.  And Johnson seemed to be the ultimate outsider.\par
"Didn't you say.."\par
"Yes, I did. I have no explanation."  No explanation to give Johnson, anyway.  \par
"I see."   \par
 No one was around.   Usually CJ was here.  She would have known all about the boxes, but she also would have taken these boxes to the Mathom House, or have them taken there, and knew John well enough to not tolerate even a single box, let alone dozens, to be left like this.  Usually two or three other people were around.  Keith Berg was at home today, but the others? Everyone gone? Really?   That was not only unusual, it was extraordinary.  Someone was supposed to be here at all times.  \par
Someone knocked on the door.  Turning, John saw it was Joshua Stone.  Josh had arrived just yesterday.  A scrawny seventeen year old with long curly hair and thick glasses over acne, workshirt, jeans and boots, he stood with a smile.\par
"Excuse me," he said,"I would like to tell you about my personal relationship with Jesus Christ. I think after you hear what I have to say you, too, will want to invite him into your heart."\par
Johnson turned, red-faced, absolutely furious and glared at Joshua, who was surprised at the deep red of Johnson's face.  His nameless assistant had moved into the hallway, as far as possible from the door.\par
"You have these people here, too?" Johson demanded of John,"Either you make him leave or I will."  \par
"Joshua, this is the office trailer.  I appreciate your zeal to win people to Christ, but this is not the time or the place.  Sorry."\par
"Good riddance," Johnson said,"I can't stand those offensive religious fanatics. Pah."\par
"Pardon me," John said,"but he was only doing what he believes God called him to do, and that is to spread the Gospel."\par
"I don't need some stinking religious trash crammed down my throat!" Johnson said.\par
In the awkward silence John's amanuensis wrote out on a sheet of paper in large letters FIND ME - JOHN and looked for tape so he could tape it to the box.  There was no tape in the desk.  There was a box of staples, and a stapler, but the stapler was empty, and the staples were for some other type of stapler.  This took time, and finally the paper was thumb-tacked to the front of the boxes facing the door.  During this John explained that this was unusual, that the office was very smooth running, and he apologized.  As they opened the door, the wind gusted and caught the door in its merciless grip, triumphant at finally finding some damage it could do. Off it went in the wind, sailing over the top of the trailer only to crash with the sound of shattering glass somewhere out of sight. The wind blew into the trailer and took the piece of paper, and it sailed off to parts unknown, turning and twisting in the wind as it rose out of sight.\par
"I'm sure we can find a replacement door up north," John said.\par
"I am sure you can," Johnson said coldly, with a small amount of amusement. "God will provide," he added mockingly. On the other side of the trailer they found the broken door, the frame twisted over the broken glass. No one was hurt, he thought to himself, and CJ would have to handle this later.  He had to stay with Johnson and his assistant, who seemed to be an amansuensis at least in the sense that she was not introduced and did not speak.  She had a small box of some sort that she seemed to be taken notes on, and every once in a while she would hold it vertically.  John had no idea what it was.\par
Four workers came up from nowhere. "We heard - is that the office trailer door?"\par
They promised to fix it, right then and there.  They had a door on their truck that was supposed to go to another trailer, but this need was worse.  In two minutes they were done with the new door.   \par
"Let me show you the east dining hall," John said.\par
While they walked Johnson told a story that he had thought amusing: they had forced a business into bankruptcy, and the owner had shot himself.  Johnson Sr. had been smart enough to make the bank the sole beneficiary, so they got all the man's assets, including his house.\par
"That must have been tough on his family," John said.\par
"Life is tough. Only some win. Everyone else loses," Johnson said with a smirk and a shrug. Clearly he thought these people in the trailers were losers.  So why help them, John wondered to himself.  Johnson did not seem like the type to answer many questions. Stone cold, absolutely without warmth.  And his assistant communicated absolutely nothing. The promise, not threat, but promise hung in the air: if you accept our help we will destroy you. \par
On arrival at the dining hall Mrs. Brot continually wiped her hands on her apron, both sides, sometimes almost wringing it as she explained they still had not cleaned up the mess.  And the other dining halls were not in use, and even less presentable.\par
"Sorry about that."  \par
Johnson shrugged. "I'm beginning to regret spending my time out here hoping to help you. From what I am seeing, you are past hope.  Might as well pack it up and send everyone elsewhere. Don't you agree?"\par
This question hit home, because John had often felt that exact same thing.  All the years of effort and futility seemed like a waste.  Johnson would take over and make everything right. Johnson was the solution to their problems.\par
No, God called them here and He sometimes used very weak things to confound the foolish. He realized Johnson had been searching his face and had that look of triumph.\par
"I know what you're thinking," Johnson said. \par
"Not all of it."\par
"Enough.  What is next?"\par
The mathom house was next, but it was clear the drunks had been at it.  They'd been in the money pile, as coins and bills had been flung everywhere, and hardly anything was on a shelf. Shelves full of goods had been turned over, boxes opened and gone through, their contents scattered.  Johnson was speechless at the idea that they did not have a bank account, and that they left all their money out in the open in a big pile.  He stared at it for a minute with barely concealed disgust. "I suppose you'll get someone to clean this up? Our bank would be happy to help you open an account," Johnson managed to say. John politely declined. "We Eppers have our way," he said. "I see," Johnson replied, looking at the dilapildated trailers and the drunks. I suppose you do.  I had another impression of Eppers. Most surprising." He sniffed: the sharp odor of urine was coming from somewhere.\par
Onward.\par
 "This is where we hold services," John explained.\par
Johnson shrugged. "I'm not interested in your so-called-services."\par
That hanger was empty - someone had removed the stage and the podium.  The stage could be quickly broken down and panels could be lifted for electrical cables.  But it was gone.   At least the hanger was clean. Not well lit but-\par
"Go away," John's eyes located the drunk in the far corner.  He was using the place as a latrine. \par
"No doubt a worshipper," Johnson laughed.\par
"A note to Maintenance, and another to Security, when they return," John calmly told his amaneunsis. He wrote it down.  Some people wanted him to use e-mail, or allow his amanuensis to do so, but John thought this computer craze would not last and e-mail was a waste.  Some things should be done more slowly - why the haste? Haste makes waste, and you cannot think things out if you are spending all your time doing things so immediately. The accountants wanted personal computers to keep the books, but that was what books were for, had been, always would be.  This fad would be over soon. The old ways were the best ways.\par
The hanger used for repairs and sewing had also been hit by the drunks. Plants had been knocked over and thrown around in the greenhouse.  At least there was no broken glass.  John shut off a hose they had left on when they had played with it.   \par
Johnson politely declined going over to the quarry, or up to the water tower, or anywhere else. He explained that he needed to get back. And no, he would not help them.  The best he would be able to do was to buy the property from them and clean out the junk.\par
"I heard you are interested in the Blythewood treasure."\par
"Oh, what is that? Never heard of it."   That was a bald-faced lie: Johnson had mentioned wanting to send search parties over the land for it.\par
"I think you know."\par
"Are you calling me a liar?"  He had another sudden anger flare-up, his face red, his fists clenched. \par
"No.  Perhaps forgetful. What do you know about it?"\par
"I know people have searched the property for it.  I think it's a myth because it would have been found by now if it ever existed."\par
"I think there is more that you are not telling me."\par
John shrugged,"It's really of no interest to me.  I don't pay any attention to it."\par
"So you have heard of things about it?"\par
"I heard the story, years ago.  And I heard people have searched thoroughly for it. That's about it."\par
"So there's more?"\par
"Not that I recall," John honestly said.  \par
"It's sort of a hobby of mine.  Would you mind, if you remember anything more about it, to write me or call me?"\par
"I think that is highly unlikely.  I doubt we will ever see each other again."\par
"That will be up to me, John Cassell.  That will be up to me."\par
In the background of this conversation Security had returned.  They were trying to get all the drunks together in one place, and the drunks were resisting.  Here was Luke Kikker, holding one in each hand by the collar, each flailing away. A third attempting to head-ram his stomach - a second later the drunk rolled into Johnson's feet, tipped his hat to the young lady, got up and headed back into the melee.\par
"Well," said Johnson, having watched Luke in action,"I think I've seen enough."  \par
By the time his car was out of the gate the drunks had been tamed. They were sitting together crowded into a circle, with Security people around them.  \par
John looked them over. One caught his eye. "This ain't no stinking paradise after all," the man told John, and spat. \par
 "You are right there," John replied, and sneezed.  Who were these guys? Why were they here? Odd that they had shown up just before Johnson did, and now that he was gone, they were sitting there tamely.  They had carefully avoided Johnson's car - dead rabbits had been thrown at just about everything else in sight, and they had not thrown any at Johnson or his lady, either.  Something very strange was going on here. \par
 Later John discovered the piece of paper in his back pocket. "Praying for you today - severe temptations on their way!!! 1 Peter 5:8. Be strong and courageous for the Lord is with you wherever you go - Phyllis.'\par
"Huh," he said. He also realized his cold had cleared up as soon as Johnson went through the old red gate.  "Huh," he said again. Now he knew his enemy a little better. \par
\par
}
 