{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 "Thanks. I will indeed have another." Augustus Bishop Abernathy smiled at his second plate, brim-full of two massive pork chops with a side of potato salad.  Jake was expressionless; not ten minutes before he had pledged entire and complete, unreserved devotion to the good bishop, and now the basement of the church, never particularly large, was crowded with the bishop, his entourage, select members of the presbytery called to witness the pastoral installation, the local session, and serving women, teenagers who managed to gracefully slide through the mostly portly crowd with plates of steaming pork (fewer than they would have liked), pitchers of the dark Epper beer, their mothers dishing out the food and frowning in a way that could cut steel at any men whose eyes happened to follow the teenage girls too long, and then peach pie, cherry pie, apple pie was served, a seemingly unending cascade of food.  Afterwards they would collect the plates, platters of salad, mugs, pitchers, silverware, cloth napkins and the tables, chairs and floors would be scrubbed to the last electron while all was washed.\par
It was almost as crowded as the sanctuary had been.  Jake had removed the pews that Galloway had left, viewing them as a Catholic innovation, and it was packed, standing room only, and tight at that, with Jake and as many could cram onto the platform from the clergy up there, so it was hard to move and see things.  Some were out in the foyar, and the basement, aside from the kitchen area, was also full of laity listening to the proceedings and wondering if the floor was going to do more than creak.  "Epper built - they could fill it with elephants dancing and it still wouldn't fail," Bill Gains of Nicholls had told a young man, not an Epper, who had read some of Jake's writings and was curious about all this, this being his first actual contact with live Eppers, down in the basement.  Upstairs the bishop had to be careful not to move his arms too much as he prayed and preached and installed.\par
He spoke of course, on the wrath of God, his sermon punctuated by flashes of lightning and roars of thunder.  Several times he stopped and looked up and waited for the thunder to die down.  His theme was Jeremiah 25 and the shepherd turning to tear the fold in verse 30: a shepherd is to guard the sheep, and so did the Great Shepherd, but that Shepherd will return in wrath, and we all are under the wrath of God in the natural world that is fallen: we feel that wrath in our bodies in disease and weakness, and between each other with broken relationships, anger, lust, sin of all kinds, and there is poverty, there are disorders such as thunderstorms, hurricanes, tornados, blizzards and swarms of locusts, floods and droughts and famines, all of which point to the fall.  Even roses have thorns, a result of the curse of Adam, and the lion must eat meat.  Again, the Shepherd over the flock Who protects the flock will roar like a lion because of the depredations of the shepherds who had robbed and deceived Israel.  More than anyone else, the shepherds are held to account: few should become teachers because they are held to a higher standard. Beware of pride, beware of apathy, spiritual laziness, indolence, waste of the good gifts God has given to you that you will be called to account for your use of, willful blindness, deafness and the determined rebellion of your own soul in the face of the temptations of the world, the flesh and the devil that will rise stronger for those in holy orders.   Let that be a lesson to you, Jake Profim, as your peril has increased in becoming a pastor and accepting a weight that has caused many to fall, many to drown, a lonely and unthanked task, and your reward shall be in heaven because you surely will not get it from the ungrateful race of mankind.\par
There were greetings from the seminary: the parable of the talents was intoned, with Jake in the role of the man with the one talent who hid it in the ground. What reward would such a one reap? The bishop would of course support his pastor through thick and thin, but  he would give no answer to their question as to what what should he do with one who is on the cusp of abandoning the grace of God to hide himself in a hole in the ground?  Nicholls was not just a hole in the ground.  There was more to it, but he did not elaborate. \par
Everythone thought it was a proper Epper sermon, in other words, and the only target was the installee rather than everyone assembled getting reamed out for laziness, idolatry, presumption and spiritual blindness and apathy, which they regarded as their due. So they were pleased with it.  It was good that he had levelled any source of pride in the town getting such a great pastor, and had so guarded their humility.  That was what a bishop was for, they supposed.  \par
Thunder rumbled.  \par
The bishop paused. "God's grace, amen?"\par
They responded, of course, with an "Amen."  They stood rigidly still because a head-nod would have been an indulgence to an ungodly emotionalism, and this service was particularly sober. Then they who could filed downstairs, tight-packed at the narrow tables, a sea of men flooding the basement, the reserved tables an untouched archipelago until the esteemed bishop, the installee and entourage arrived.  \par
They would have had more laity, had they held this outside, but the storm had forced them inside, the ladies had been ill-informed as to the number of guests expected and a rather large pig had met its maker during the installation, one that had caught wind of its fate due to the speed of the whole thing, hauled out of a sheltered, warm strawlined stall into the cold rain, then been butchered and cooked while the service was being completed. \par
The basement nonethess was packed - people could barely move to their seats.  Nonetheless there was plenty of room in the kitchen area, where the women moved swiftly like a flock of sparrows around seed-piles, swooping in to drop off empties and swooping away with full pots, plates, platters and pitchers of warm dark Epper beer, unexpectedly strong for those unfamiliar with it - this particular brew tasted as of malted barley but had the strength of vodka.  The door banged and a scarfed, wet young-girl-head peeked in at the cooks, who looked expectantly: the pig, butchered, would not be ready, like some had said, but other pork had arrived, steaming in the rain, before being served out, and the laity had listened from the inside porch and the basement as their pastor was installed, listening to the pig screaming and being killed to the sound of Koine singing - they were in a hurry, they had not been careful, the pig had wrestled itself free and had fought for its life, panicked, wounded, using its size, weight and teeth.  The comfortable, unchanging, eternal Epper liturgy, sung in Koine Greek, was run through, the long version, this being a high event, the long being merely the short with more material, and then the pastoral installation in the same language.  Laity could follow the first but the second contained quotes from Nazienzen, among others, that were rhetorical gems but hard to follow even in translation.  The pig had been silenced, though, before the installation itself, for which all were truly grateful.  The pig had accompanied the sermon partway through.  They had had continued, unexpected difficulty with the rain-slick, wounded, angry, loud pig before he met his demise.  \par
"That man will stuff himself into the grave," Matushka Abernathy quietly told Betsy. They were sitting at a secondary table, the primary table being of course reserved for the celebrant and other pastors - Betsy noticed a small amount of friction, hardly noticible, from a member of the local session who had been waved off by the good bishop with his explanation that he wanted a word with his pastors. The bishop sat convenient to the cooking and  could see the whole room, sitting central and presiding as if he were on a dias.  Betsy looked at Matushka's 300 plus pound husband.  Despite all the conversation, the clink of dishes, the thunder and sound of rain, and his age of somewhere in the high eighties, the bishop's voice out clearly. He had a fine, loud, clear voice, and it was indeed a pleasure to hear him sing in Koine. \par
"Continence, my man, is a most excellent virtue.  Pastor Galloway, your predecessor, of happy memory, was most admirable in that regard," he was telling Jake and the others, loudly enough that the whole room could hear.'  To call it 'continence' was a stretch of amazing proportions. And 'of happy memory'.  Indeed.  The bishop rarely visited, but this visit would be remembered.  Those from Nicholls immediately removed every trace of emotion from their faces.   The amanuensis on the bishop's right, the only one not allowed to eat now, was writing down every word. "While not necessary, for example, if with purity of heart you can beget children without sin, something Augustine doubted, and I expect it is the fountainhead, if you will, of original sin. Do you not think that by 'the tongue' St. James was using an euphemism?  The whole body is set on fire more by that part that is not the tongue than by the tongue, is it not?  We have all known men who did not think with their brain but with the peccant part."  At this there were murmurs of agreement, "As pastors we withhold ourselves during a season of prayer. For us, of course, that is lifelong -"\par
"I would have loved to have had children," Matushka whispered to Betsy. "That man. I love him, but his ideas. The first year was fine. Well, he didn't try hard.  But then.  Oh, Betsy, don't let him get your husband to read Augustine 'On Continence'. Or Ambrose of Milan."\par
"Jake did read it.  He thought of all Augustine's errors, here they were consolidated. David had no interest in a woman except for the begetting of children? Indeed. I know Jake better than that. From him, men in general. He is of the opinion Augustine never really left Manicheanism."\par
"Maybe he can straighten my Augustus out," and looking, it seemed Jake had said something, as the good bishop was looking astonished.  \par
"How is the bishop's retirement going?" one member of the presbytery, one table over, asked another. "Still looking into it," was the reply, and there were sighs.  A voluntary retirement was one thing, but this would be the nicest way of resolving matters. If Abernathy would not retire, there was precedent for his removal, but it was messy. \par
"Jake is all in favor of keeping in practice for the begetting of children," Betsy told Matushka.\par
"I envy you, girl. You shall be Matushka in more than name. How empty it is for me." \par
"Russians and Germans in one settlement? No, no, I am not at all in favor of these mixed settlements," the bishop was saying,"They have as much chance of success as did the Russians and Germans of being buddies in the middle of the war. Not that I think this Nicholls settlement - er, church - has any chance of success, and I wish you well, my son, I wish you well, but in my opinion the best thing to do would be to form one Russian settlement and another German. These cultures are hetereogenous - studies have shown that only homogenous settlements thrive.  One is happy only with one's own kind and assured that his interests will be met. Here, one group should leave. Enough Epper settlements fail every year, and here you are with a church, of all things, not a proper settlement, hardly Epper at all. It is doomed.  Not that you do not have my full support and enthusiasm for what you are doing, but these resources and people would be better off elsewhere."\par
Jake said something that was not caught. Most of the people had stopped talking and had turned to hear their bishop. He had taken their attention off the rather small servings of pork and the rather large serving of sauer kraut that people were getting. \par
"Further, a scholar like you does not belong among these Marines. Go back to academia! Leave these hayseeds alone. And these Marines? They think they are bullet proof. They are in no way true Eppers. I accepted you in this role because no one else wanted it, and here you are, but let me warn you, nothing good will come of it."\par
"Hayseeds," people looked at each other.  The only people in the room who were actually were from Nicholls were the elders of the session, retired Marine officers all, now looking at the bishop.  Some had turned to see him.  They were not at all pleased. \par
"Excellence, my son," the bishop had moved on to another topic,"Must always be secondary to obedience.  While excellence is excellent, we call Him Lord, not Perfection, meaning we are to obey, and that perfectly, not to be perfect, and then obey. I expect both obedience and excellence from you, my son.  Bear in mind you have promised me to confess any doubts - but I assure you, I am in favor of freedom of thought, academic freedom, that is to say, within the denominational guideliness our beloved Committee on Doctrinal Purity defends us with; thought must be trained.  Not that I am finding fault in you here, my beloved son; your works are praiseworthy and sublime. On the other hand I expect you to keep me fully informed.  Fully informed of all your thoughts and sermons, and of course I will immediately notify the beloved Committee on Doctrinal Purity with any concerns I have, any at all, because our doctrine is priceless and must be preserved.  Within those wide constraints there is ample ground for theological inquiry.  In any choice between obedience and excellence, obedience must win out, as that is the true way to excellence, excellence within your obedience, not obedience within excellence.  Always obey.  That is the true path to excellence.   But to continue, in our learned obedience we become perfect, which is our sanctification, and not the other way around, a Romish error."\par
"God bless the Reformation!" one of the other pastors finally got a word in. Some of them were aware of the danger present: the bishop was prone to a tedious prolixity at best on these occasions, often veering into unpleasant accounts of the atrocities of the Catholic church and the scandals of popes, nuns, bishops and monks ad nauseum, and sometimes he had threatened, sometimes forced promises out of them that at normal times would not happen, would not be remembered, and were sometimes awkward, and veered off into stories best not repeated.  They had all promised to visit Jerusalem.  They had all promised to spend a year in the Peruvian rain forest witnessing to the natives, and six months in prison ministry, to try continence and Platte County Settlement Beer, the best in the area. Best to move the conversation to safe ground. Quickly there were murmurs and "Here, here!" from several. They had all promised to wear cotton underwear, said subject having dominated the discussion at the last installation and still well-remembered, and even today Pastor Artos had been asked if his underwear was cotton, elastic bands around the waist being a Popish innovation straight from the pit of hell.  More pitchers of beer appeared. There were more toasts, laughter, and the bishop told a story, listened to another which he roared at laughter at, and began another.  Matushka hoped it was not the one it seemed to be.\par
"God bless the United States Marine Corps!" one of the local elders returned the cheer, watching.  \par
"Hear, hear," the primary table echoed, the bishop  joining in with vigor. It was perhaps his sixth full mug of the dark, potent Epper beer.  He put the empty mug down with a belch and smiled at Jake.\par
"Further," he continued in the same loud voice,"Although you certainly have the brains, you do not have the experience for this position.  I predict failure, as the problems you are faced with are deep and long lasting.  Nonetheless you have my full confidence and support. My full confidence.  I am sure you can do the job and the people in Michigan overrode my misgivings and objections, which remain.  I am confident you can, fully. Support.  I have your full, no you have my full support, my son. Continence is the way to go, and I am glad that you will never again have sex with your wife.  I have seen you wife. That would indeed be a difficult temptation because frankly my continence is tested every time I see her. Such a complexion. Such grace. Such...." Everyone started talking at once in an attempt to drown out his booming voice.  This was intolerable. \par
Betsy turned for help to Matushka, who was gathering her things but nodded at Betsy.\par
"That man can talk," said Matushka,"but I think our amanuensis is going to have to drive us home. If we don't leave soon, I fear, well, you will see." She attempted to catch the eye of the good bishop, who had started the sort of story that never ends well, especially in mixed company.  His booming voice had quieted the room and he indeed could tell a story. Someone had gotten him to change the subject.  The current story, starting from comments about Betsy, concerned a Catholic priest, a bordello and a not-too-bright young woman with an enormous-. \par
"Dear," Matushka almost shouted, now standing, facing her husband on the other side of the next table over.  Everyone else was quiet, the teenage girls standing with their mothers, the mothers expressionlessly staring at the bishop.\par
"Yes, my dear," he said. He smiled indulgently, as if to say, \i see what I have to put up with\i0 . \par
"I am afraid we must leave now.  I am not feeling well."  That was the truth. No woman, least of all a bishop's wife, would have felt well then. She knew exactly where that story led. Luther and her husband would have competed in vulgarity.\par
"Really, dear."\par
"Yes."  She pressed her hands against her stomach.  \par
"Well, ladies and gentlemen, pastors and elders, serving girls and the faithful, God bless the weakness of women. " He paused, and the \i amen \i0 was returned. "Remember the call and the glory of continence. I fear we must be going," and his party rose, one or two of them somewhat unsteadly, particularly since the chairs were so closely spaced to the other tables that it was indeed a wonder that the serving girls had managed to slip through, small though they were.  But where a reed of a girl can go, a boulder of a three-hundred pound man who perhaps has reached his beer limit has trouble, and chairs and tables were scooted to let the party out.  Things were so close that  few managed to stand out of respect for the bishop, who also was having trouble standing. His wife had him firmly by the arm after elbowing a prominent pastor to the side, and she propelled the bishop out the door at a speed she could manage, the amanuensis at his other elbow.  She did not stop for umbrella or coat but drove on into the cold rain and found the car, bundled him into the back with the amanuensis, and found him singing "Rocky Road to Dublin" softly until he closed his eyes and began snoring. After pulling and pushing the bishop into a somewhat upright position, wife at his side, the amanuensis then exited into the rain and took the driver's seat.\par
Augustus Bishop Abernathy woke up at the sound of the car moving and wide-eyed, looked around.\par
"You are a fool," Matushka hissed at him in a whisper.\par
"There are reasons Catholic priests are celibate," he whispered back, eyes closed, head back.\par
"Such a man."\par
"Thank God for continence," he muttered back, and fell asleep. \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 