{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Jake looked at the manse - the pastor's residence.  Here was the street, then the sidewalk, and immediately the surrounding a six foot stone wall, which he could see over, and there was a gate, a rather solid metal affair, heavy, that only reluctantly admitted that it, too, was not stone.  Not too strides inside were the steps to the porch, three of them, stone again, and then the stone porch that wrapped around the house, not a dainty, narrow thing, but a full twelve feet wide on all sides except the south, where it was twenty feet wide.  All was local limestone, built so long ago that no one knew when: even the roof was limestone, steep on the outside and arched on the inside. On top of the limestone of the porch wood had been laid down that matched the interior wooden floor and reduced the starkness and severity of the stone.  Three rooms, high ceilinged: the bedroom on the south, with a fireplace, the office in the middle, with doors to the front and the back, so that it was also a hallway, with the desk pressed against the one wall and glass-doored bookcases, currently empty, vacated by those who had collected the affairs of the late Pastor Galloway and departed with the contents; and on the other side the living and dining room, again with a fireplace that was used for cooking in the winter.  In the summer there was an outside kitchen in use, reached via the gallery (as they called these wide porches in NIcholls) and down the steps you came to a freeze-proof pump, and past that the outhouse.\par
Pastor Galloway had fought tooth and nail against the introduction of indoor plumbing in Nicholls as an ungodly and unholy innovation.  He had reluctantly admitted its usefulness for industrial applications, and then residential.  But none were allowed in the manse.  Neither was there electricity, for the simple reason that Pastor Galloway had felt the same way about that, and it would have required drilling through the rock to bring a line in, and then the line would be ugly on the simply purity of the rock.  \par
Sid showed him the cellar door on the south side, set in the gallery, and Jake stepped down into the cool darkness.  There were shelves still full of preserves: apple, strawberry, grape, cherry, and several cured hams hung there on their strings. \par
Then it was the backyard.  Here the well, there the outhouse, here the chickens looked up, hoping for a handful, there the boar - by immemorial custom the boar was kept at the pastor's house.  The boar saw they had no pail, and he grunted and closed his eye again. Then the kitchen-garden, with the basil starting and the mint rising, the rosemary now awake and some beds empty, ready. The daffodils along the back wall were yielding to the inevitable, red roses were in bud, and there was a gate, a match to the front gate, that Sid said he had never recalled anyone ever opening, and he knew of no key.   \par
From the porch you could look over the back wall, and here the railroad bed was high, and along it ran a service road.  Some scraggly bushes of some sort formed something of a barrier but could be easily seen through. Jake could hear Betsy in the house, opening the various cabinets, drawers, standing closets, and Sid's wife narrating things.  There was feminine laughter bursting out every few minutes, and he was relieved that Betsy seemed to be happy. People had been taking care of the place, even in the absence of a pastor, and before that, the declining health of Pastor Galloway, now buried somewhere in upper New York State, and the  widow Galloway now living with family not far from there. \par
The office again, where he would work, although in hot weather the porch was such that it would be pleasant - there was actually more living space out there than inside.  His boxes of books were neatly piled wherever possible, and he scooched sideways, looking at the picture of the Shepherd with the lamb on his shoulder, the Shepherd being followed by other sheep in a rich green pasture, the shepherd turned away, but you could see holes in his wrists and the light suggested a halo. Oil on canvas, 1850s New York Epper, Jake was guessing.  Realistic, colorful, and like the Epper paintings of that period, the colors faded to dark around the edge to remind the viewer of the dark world we live in.  The Shepherd's face was never seen in that art, lest it tempt idolatry, but the Shepherd was always strong and sure as he carried sheep, rebuked the wind, healed the blind, accompanied boys in the fiery furnace or sat with Daniel in the lion's den.  \par
Art for the sake of art was now discouraged.  You heard the word, you were not supposed to see it.  The Committee on Doctrinal Purity had stated that the creation of more artwork was a questionable activity, and would be investigated, and there were guidelines for what was acceptable.  The Eppers were considerably poorer culturally for that decision, something he could not say to anyone.  \par
Betsy's merry blue eyes grew merrier, as they did, when she saw him. "All the drawers are empty. Not a plate, fork, spoon, glass, cloth, cooking utensil or candle to be found! Not a stick for a fire, nor a match or striker to start it with! They certainly cleaned it! Not a speck of dust, either!"\par
Jake turned to Sid. "I'll see what I can do," he said.  With the house empty, it was not surprising anything not nailed down had not been taken.  They'd left the furniture, anyway, and the cellar.  On hearing that Betsy was down there, counting hams, jars, dried apples, dried wreathes of pepper, garlic and onion and a hundred other foods Jake had missed. She also scrutinized the herb garden and closely questioned what was there, and what would grow in NIcholls, and when.  The outdoor well and the outhouse did not bother her - that was what she'd had growing up - and all was fine.  It was too late to plant radishes.  And the peas were  in flower all over town - July, not that long away, would kill them and they would have to wait.  A thousand pieces of garden knowledge poured forth and Betsy took them in, nodding.  \par
Here in the office in a drawer were the notes for Pastor Galloway's last sermon 'Raid on Ziklag: 1 Samuel 30'.  It had not been delivered, in fact was not completed.  It seemed to be observations and questions about David's military strategy. Jake understood that for the last several months, the pulpit had been supplied from elsewhere, as the good Pastor had laid dying in the bed not fifteen feet behind him.  A four poster still without anything suggesting a mattress, let alone sheets, pillows, pillow case, blankets, comforter or bedspread. \par
No one was outside, no Sid, no line of Magi bearing large gifts of household goods, but the Profim belongings were all inside, anyway.  Their car was parked just outside, and Sid had told him to leave it unlocked and with the key in it, per city code.  It was still there.\par
Jake looked at the boxes of books and the shelves and considered.  It was sometimes considered presumptuous for a new pastor to unpack thoroughly before installation, and sometimes before his probation was over.  He considered Nicholls, and concluded that courage would always win out over caution here.  He had not unpacked the first box when the caravan arrived, and he spent the rest of the day being in the way, with Betsy being everywhere, except when he attempted escape, Betsy would have a question for him, so he could not leave, either.  The house flew together as Betsy directed; the drawers, cabinets and shelves were filled, and he was called upon to admire the piles of china when Betsy told him with a merry look that the house was now together, except that the office area needed some work.  If he would.  He would. \par
============================\par
The next morning he fell in love with that back porch, with its view east over the garden, across the wall, and catching the entire sunrise, north to south. He watched the shadows of the scraggly bushes as they threw shadows at him as he prayed, thanking the Maker of sun and shadow and the glories of His creation, that were only echoes of true glory.  He caught movement in his eye, and to the south he saw something white coming up the service road. \par
He watched as it drew closer, and it resolved into a rider, clad in white, riding a white horse, at the head of a column of men.  Was he dreaming?  The rider was all in white, and his horse was as well, from the bit and bridle to the saddle, stirrups, even his boots and the horse's hoofs, and the troops behind were clad in white, marching behind.\par
The rider wore a tricorn hat, white of course, and as he passed Jake, he saluted him with his sword before facing forward.  He called something that Jake could not catch, and the marching men behind him turned their heads to him and saluted as they marched. These were not kids, not civilians, but there was something immensely resolute, hard and tough about them. They seemed to be dressed in uniforms of a bygone day, carrying muskets with long bayonets, cartridge bags at their belt.  Outside their rows and columns marched their sargeant, who saluted Jake as he passed, and up came another company.  Jake counted eighty men, and again they saluted, like Jake was on a reviewing stand.  Three more companies of infantry went by, then a troop of cavalry, then another of infantry, then twelve cannons that could have been from the civil war, then wagons, and a straggle of women and children, and a dog following that nosed and sniffed everything before running up to catch up with the column, and then stopping again to sniff. All the people saluted him. \par
On the last wagon's tailboard sat a woman with a small child.  The light was strong enough now that Jake could clearly see the child, who stared at him with the solemnity an infant is capable of. But it was a strangely piercing look, and Jake wondered again if this was dream or vision or reality.  Jake watched as they rolled forth out of sight, with the crossing guard down up ahead, and they continued north past it.\par
"What are you looking at?" Betsy asked,"You've been out here quite a while."\par
"I wish I knew," he said. \par
\par
}
 