{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\colortbl ;\red155\green0\blue211;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\ul\b\f0\fs22\lang1033\par
\par
\ulnone\b0\tab Mark "the Potter"  Oct 1975\par
\par
His brother exiled, Mark Kikker left with him for Profim Properties. Mark was an idiot savant.   Mark's brother took care of Mark, and Mark and Mark decided to go with him.  Keith Berg prayed for him perfunctorily, and there was a slow but major improvement.  Mark started his pottery business, which flourished, and they got into the highly lucrative field of medical ceramics, his brother's background as a pharmacist being useful.  Nicholls Bank put pressure on them to borrow money, starting at very favorable rates and terms.  Mark did not believe in borrowing money.  In his opnion, businesses did much better if they did not concern themselves with money.  This viewpoint stunned the bank employee he shared it with.\par
\par
 Mark found he could no longer sell much in town, and building inspectors regularly cited him for problems with the building. Finally they moved out to the Ranch from Nicholls and sold the building to Nicholls Bank for $1.00. A Mr. Johnson of Harrisonville has been involved, the up-and-coming grandson of the founder of Johnson Bank of Harrisonville. Johnson tells him the story of the Phelps Diamond and how it was stolen from his great grandfather. Had he heard any talk about it out on the property/ If he did Johnson would show great appreciation monetarily.  Mark had not heard anything.  He also was not interested in telling Johnson anything. He thought Johnson was behind the claims that he had not paid taxes and that he had assaulted a woman, both untrue. \par
\par
Later Kikker Industries became a major economic engine for not only the Ranch but Nicholls.  It continues to be wholly owned by the Ranch.  A number of settlements were built in close proximity to each other, each contributing a portion of the finished product. They eventually moved close to the highway and financed their own interchange. With habitual Epper reserve, however, nothing could be seen from the highway and much was underground.  \par

\pard\li720  \i\par

\pard\i0  \par
\par
\par
 \tab John Cassell   July 1978\ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 John Cassell was high-energy, even running three miles a day in rural Alaska - at the Ranch he soon increased it to five miles, every day.  He was a natural leader, highly intelligent, fluent in English, French, and of course Koine.  He also spoke Epper-Dutch, which resembled eighteenth century Dutch more than modern Dutch and had a vocabulary difference with standard Dutch.  He could be quite caustic and was impatient with people he thought inefficient, slow, stupid or otherwise not with the program.  Generally he controlled his temper, though, and was, as someone said, "good acid".  He spent much time writing development plans on different aspects of the Ranch, only to find some change or fact that would prevent its implementation.  Paul was uninterested in his reports, and when he sent several to Jake, all he got back was "very nice".  \par
\par
\par
\par
On John's arrival from Alaska, John was horrified by Paul's passivity, but he realized it was backed by prayer, faith and results.  His sentiments lined up more with Keith Berg's as to the imposition of order and structure. Jake and John had met years earlier and a mutual esteem and friendship arose.  Jake told Paul that John was the administrator they had been looking for - "God may supply manna in the wilderness, but there is a time to settle in Canaan and plant crops". But Jake did nothing to implement John as the administrator.   Keith Berg welcomed John and encouraged him to stay and get involved. He began with little things, leading via example and persuasion.  Some obstinate people opposed him as a new comer.  \par
\par
His wife Katy was openly contemptuous of the charismatic movement and the gullibility (in her opinion) of some of the people.   She finally realized these people were not just plastic comic Christians but real people who were struggling with the same God she was, and her attitude changed.  But Katy never really accepted the gifts of the Spirit as active today, and dismissed talk of demonic activity as the product of overactive imaginations and superstition. She admitted that perhaps there had been miraculous activity back in the 'Golden Age' here, she would not rule it out, but she would be very skeptical of any claims of any alleged miracles today.  Hadn't miracles ceased with the apostles? Do we really need to become supersitious and go around praying for healing and casting out demons?  She thought they should soberly pursue the gifts of the Spirit and not focus on such things. People learned quickly not to discuss the miraculous around her.    \par
\par
John encountered opposition from Wilson, an American charismatic layman, obsessively neat regarding his own appearance and critical of everyone else. Wilson considered himself one of the founders of the place and entitled to respect as a pillar of the community, in contrast to new people like John Cassell who needed to be taken down a notch. Wilson was immediately jealous of John: bitter, petty, almost but not quite malicious, always in a way that was one step short of needing a rebuke. Wilson became a bitter foe who would not lead, would not follow, would not get out of the way, and would not leave.   Wilson was  under the impression this was the promised land where he need not work; he'd been here for years and "knew how things worked." He considered his main role to be guildance, although his advice rarely turned out well, but some were convinced by his smooth delivery, his charm and his thorough criticism of everything wrong with the place, most of which were things he took out of proportion, although based somewhat in truth, but he used them to build a group around himself as the one who really understood the place. Wilson had ambitions to be the administrator but neither Paul nor Keith Berg supported that. John wondered why anyone would listen to Wilson, who would speak authoritatively if wrongly on any subject that came up.  \par
\par
Keith Berg knew there were rumblings of discontent, but Wilson hid himself well enough that Keith could not find the source of the problem, if there was a single source.\par
\par
Despite living in New Hope, where he sought to be pastor to no avail, Elias Straedner bitterly opposed John, as he had been on the CDP during the start of John's trial, was among those who voted to oust him, and was now of the opinion he should not be in leadership. John struggled to forgive him and let the past be the past. Did Elias Straedner intend to have a Committee on Doctrinal Purity here and put everyone on trial who had been exiled?  He confessed he was tempted, but he saw that as wrong.  But what were the limits of theology that were tolerated in order to enforce unity?  Unity was not approached that way - it had not worked for the Eppers and they were determined not to go down that road.  Chastened, Elias returned to New Hope. \par
\par
They'd seen no miracles in some time.  Had God forgotten them? Was there sin in the camp? Yes, and they were addressing it continually, as it was like a weedy garden. Was the decision to disperse for winter wrong? Were they "administering" and "managing" in the flesh instead of "ministering in the power of the Holy Spirit"? Key here is "seen": God had been quietly working, but one had to look deep for it. Story of the chicken: one piece of chicken fed everyone. Foundational moment in the history of the Ranch. God was with them in quiet ways even more than in spectacular ones. John is skeptical about reports he's heard of some creepy supernatural somethiing under Snake Woods, which he regards as superstitious hogwash.  \par
\par
John Cassell led them in the emergency of the storm.  After this he was no longer challenged seriously as the administrator.  Jake thought they all perished and regretted  his inattention, especially in not delegating overall responsibility. After the storm Wilson left, as well as several other families.  Jake stayed for a week and listened. He would not live forever and he could not support them forever; if they were going to stay, they needed to become a self-supporting community.  He could not and would not be involved in the day to day of this, and frankly he didn't know how much longer he would be able to support them: he sensed he had peaked, as now places that formerly begged him to come were not even returning phone calls. His would be a long, slow taper as his hour was passing in the US.  Time to pick up on long-standing invitations, still valid, to visit South Africa, Rhodesia and Nigeria. He would order trailers, but they would have to do the rest. Trailers? John wondered.  They would have been better off with deliveries of raw material, such as lumber, and building things themselves.  Eppers typically do not buy finished goods.  Where had Jake come up with this idea? Then he heard nothing about it and figured Jake had dropped the idea, which relieved him of some anxiety.  He began drawing up a list of material that he thought would be good to get instead of the trailers, if Jake was going to do anything.  Funds and gifts had been sporadic, so he tended to dismiss this and it was low priority. \par
\par
With the storm gone, a number of families moved back into tents not far from the stable, but things had changed. Wilson and some of his followers left, the others fit into the new way of doing things.  The Council of Twelve, as they came to be known, had unquestioned authority to make long-term, strategic decisons, which they were intent on using as little as possible. People knew they looked out for each other.  Hard work was expected.  The contract system was established, run by  Administrator John Cassell.  What someone worked established how they could receive housing and food, and people were expected to work as hard as they were able. John hoped to have either a staff of administrators or an administrator in each settlement, but the Council of Twelve stated that would be their decision, which had not been made yet.  The place took on the characteristics of an Epper settlement, if grossly oversized.  Jake turned the property over to the Council of Twelve  in the form of Jacob Profim Properties, LLC. \par
\par
The Ranch began an annual day of thanksgiving centered on a common meal including chicken and potato soup to remember that day.  Many stayed who were on the point of leaving. Many people huddled together for warmth with straw in the stable. Rescue attempt by Nicholls Epper church - Kitten involved and his sons, and Pastor Schmidt, others.   Some people left as soon as the blizzard was over and the roads were clear enough.    \par
\par
Keith Berg was offered the position of Pastor.  He took some prayerful time but due to family concerns he declined.  He also declined a position on the Council of Twelve, as he felt he would be overly influential and that might be a back way to him being the de facto pastor. The Council looked to him for advice and leadership. He was the de facto pastor.  He preached, counseled and taught on a part-time basis.  Elias Straedner made it known that he should be on the Council, or the pastor, or the administrator, because John was a heretic.  "We all are heretics," they replied,"and you are one of those who made us such."  Elias Straedner did not take this well. Incredibly, this state of affairs of Keith Berg seeking God's will took until 1990, when he finally declined and they said that was indeed final. Sandy Sands and Joseph Bauer, former assistant to Elias Straedner, were among those chosen.\par
\par
The Council accepted John as Administrator in accordance with 1 Corinthians 12:28. The administrator is not on the Council, being a "thumb to the fingers of the elders" as they put it.  The Council decided to cap the size of a settlement at two hundred families in accordance with Epper practice, effectively breaking the camp into two zones until permanent buildings were built by and for each settlement. There was a lot of debate as to what two settlements there should be to start with.  They finally agree on Hair Bair as the administrative center or capital, with the high school, the Council of Twelve, and major facilities to serve all other settlements.  The second settlement would be concerned with water, always a sore point, centered around where the POW well had been located.  Both settlements were to be self-sufficent but trade with each other and the outside.  \par
\par
Eventually the Council decided that all administrative decisions would be made by them, and no administrators would be permitted in individual settlements.  New Haven balked at this, partly thanks to Elias Straedner, but also because they already had an administrator, Yackob Brodt by name, in place. New Haven agreed to coordinate with the rest of the Ranch but insisted on sovereignty within the limits of its own settlement boundaries.  They stated they would go along with the Council of Twelve where they could but did not consider the Council's decisions binding. The Council found the other settlements mostly taking the same position, even the later ones.  The only one that was fully under the Council was Hair Bair, where the administrator for the Ranch also was the administrator for the settlement.  So they slowly backed off on this.\par
\par
John worked on organizing the settlements properly, with a pastor and administrator and a local session in each, with the Council and the Pastor and Administrator for the Ranch taking coordinating functions, despite unwanted interference from the Council of Twelve. The Council, the pastor and the administrator were not to involve themselves in the independence of any particular settlement, per the historical Epper structure. It took the Council a long time to see this.   They tended to see the Ranch as one settlement with many sub-settlements.  The settlements saw themselves as self-functioning and independent, if on Ranch property.  The Council of Twelve would not sell them the land, but then the Council did not charge rent.  Agreements were written to the effect that if the Ranch was ever sold or changed hands, the settlements would acquire their own land without cost.  At the time, Hair Bair was mainly tents, with a few houses, dining halls, latrines and the Hanger. \par
\par
However, the Council overlooked their inability to bring in any money from outside - typically settlements generate revenue, but Hair Bair did not initially. They were being supported also by the Epper settlements that had established themselves, who also expressed concern for them long-term. For a long time Hair Bair was mostly a  receiving, organizing and sending depot for settlements and had no built-in industry, which was a source of criticism by the other settlements.  John realized it would mean years of poverty but it was the best solution available.  Keith Berg urged them to work on self-sufficiency, but this was disregarded in favor of outside employment: many at Hair Bair then worked outside. New Haven saw no reason for a governmental center at Hair Bair.  At the same time they accepted the idea of some centralized functions, such as a high school there.  Specialization could be done by settlements in the age-old manner, and they thought the Council mistaken in their direction. \par
\par
\cf1 They hired White, Black & Jones, a professional consulting engineering firm as public works director. They hired Serenity4U, full-time, professional, trained Security people who patrol the entirety of the property. This was after multiple marijuana fields, some booby-trapped, were found in various places around the property. Shelly found the first while horseback riding, and then they discovered more.  They burned them all.  They hired a law firm to defend the Ranch against an increasing number of difficulties with state and federal agencies.  All this costs money, in short supply.   \ul\i Is all this really needed?\cf0\par
\ulnone\i0\par
John advocated for holistic management of the desertified areas, starting in the  north, with cattle and a few buffalo to be maintained in common. The Council of 12 were unwilling to obtain more than twenty head of cattle and ten head of buffalo, not nearly enough, and add ten head of cattle a year: anything beyond that should be on the settlements and internal to them. The Council of 12 was unwilling to hire anyone with expertise in holistic land management, and results were mixed. \lang9  They were delighted when members of a settlement in New York state, seeking more land for their aurochsen, and under heresy trial, found an opportunity here.   The individual settlements were doing better, however. \lang1033\par
\par
That spring a deadly flu spread through the property.  It took the elderly and small children. There was grief and murmuring: where was God, who had led them to die in the wilderness?  Karl Sallow, leader of the health and wealth prophets, was among the first to die. Elias Straedner died with only Keith Berg at his bedside.  He thanked Keith Berg for leading him out of bitterness back to Christ, and was ready to meet Him in person. Keith Berg told him that he might have many more years on earth, but Straedner was silent, as he had died.  Matthew Erlanger fell ill, wrote a long angry letter blaming John Cassell, and then died. The letter got out and was dealt with. Others also blamed John Cassell.  He said there were too many people too close together who had come from many different parts of the world - on thinking about it he was surprised there had not been more illness. They set apart land for a cemetary west of the old quarry.   Six head of cattle died of fever.  The other cattle were separated from each other and survived. This again cost money. The leaders called for a time of prayer, fasting and repentence.  Many confessed their sins and those of their fathers publicly in a three-day long meeting. \par
\par
The Johnson Bank launched a lawsuit against Profim Properties, claiming that the Muellers had promised them the land and they found a Mueller to back it up. It was spurious and the Mueller they found could not speak for the family, but that took a lot of time, money and headache.  Johnson Bank filed it in Minnesota and the judge there granted a change of venue.  They attacked the LLC and attempted to demonstrate that the owners were not meeting the fiduciary responsibliities of those living on the land, in fact, that they were forcing them into slavery.  Taxes were also due on their labor and the goods furnished to them.  In Nicholls County court Profim Property attorneys argued it as a religious freedom case and the judge dismissed the suit for lack of evidence. \par
\f1\par
}
 