{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green176\blue80;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\ul\f0\fs22\lang1033 Ellen Ripley Bread Joins the Choir\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\f1\lang9  It always seemed too big...Something I could not handle but was strapped to, like to a rocket....The expectations were huge, I mean larger than I think I was prepared to handle, which is why it happened, you know?\par
I am here in front of all you loving dear brothers and sisters at the Ranch this morning.....I am nervous...Surprised?  This is the first time ever that I have stood in front of a crowd and I am talking not singing, and talking about what happened. I've done little intros to songs now and then and I've thanked people for the awards I have been given, but this is different.  That was flash and glitter - I mean I was really honored with all those Grammy and Dove Awards, really, because it was never me. I felt it was unmerited favor.  Gold and platinum albums.  Magazine interviews.  More money than I could handle. People give it meaning, but looking out from the inside, a lot more of it is empty than people realize.  Looking back, it was never me. It was never about me. \par
It always was about me, about my voice, I mean.  Sometimes I felt like it was destroying my life, crowding out the human.  I think of Judy Garland sometimes, and what happened to her. Or Marilyn Monroe.  That could have been me.  That WAS me.  My life was destroyed and there was no longer any reason to live.  I mean, when you wake up in a strange hotel room, and are woken up by the cops, and the guy you slept with - a guy you barely know - is getting busted by the cops, and they photograph you in handcuffs as you are walked to the car, and then from the car into the jail, your life seems over. And the pictures in the tabloids. "Christian singer busted."  Done. Kaput. A disgrace to the Gospel, an anti-witness.  One woman wrote me and called me Anti-Christ. More than one. Dozens, I think.  I read every one of those angry letters.  Someone said Christians eat their wounded. How true.  And I served time on the narcotics violations. They found I was pushing drugs. Me?  I served years. Years. Five years.  He got off. Served no time.  I have not seen him since I entered the Women's Prison at Lansing.  I do not plan to. I barely knew him.  How did I get there? I have asked myself that question many, many times.  And then, how did I get here? And my only answer is solely by the grace of God. Though I walked through the valley of shadows and there was no sign of Him, still, He was there.\par
I am not being vain when I say that I think there is no one here today who does not know my story or recognize me. Anyone? Raise your hand.  Thank you sir.  And you, ma'm. Thank you. I need your gift of humility to me. If you have never heard of me it is a blessing. A blessing!  I see four people out of thousands. Hundreds? Hundreds.  It doesn't matter.  The numbers don't matter.  It is scary to hear you are in the same league as the Beatles and the likes of Peter Paul and Mary, or ABBA or Simon and Garfunkel.  it is something I have to deal with, and that is what I want to talk about today. I was Ellen Ripley Bread.  But she is dead and gone. I am born again....Uh...  The Council of Twelve asked me to talk today.  PLEASE do not applaud. PLEASE.  Applause can be deadly. It was toxic for me.  PLEASE.  PLEASE.  \par
 Allow me to step in here. Please do not applaud.  This is serious and we ask you to take her wishes seriously.  Those are also the wishes of the Council of Twelve.  Silence.   Thank you.  Continue to withhold applause.  This is sermon time, not entertainment. \par
Thank you, Elder Cassell.  This is painful to talk about, oh so painful, but it must be said.  I have gone through hell and I am on my way back....I want to tell you my story, but it won't be the glamour-girl-gone-bad story, the old story.  It is a little different.  The glamour girl did go bad, but Jesus rescued her.  I died one day and I am now living a new life. \par
For those of you who don't know, when I was seven years old - seven - I soloed in the Christmas pageant at my church.  It was my first performance, and people have told me they were shocked at how good it was.  I am not bragging but telling you of what was going on.  From then on I did the offeratory on Sundays and sometimes Wednesdays, and then I was asked to sing at other churches.  By the time I was ten I think I had sung in every Epper church in Michigan and Wisconsin.  At eleven I cut a single that I won my first Dove award for. Eleven years old. From then for the next twelve years I won at least one, sometimes two, sometimes three or more awards for "Best Female Vocalist" from various organizations, and as you know I was at the top of the charts for ten years. Ten years.\par
There is a lot of pressure on a celebrity.  The Eppers were proud of one of their own being made known.  There was some hesitation when I started singing secular music, and my skirts got shorter and disappeared and the music got raunchier.  My albums tell the story: "Come Let the Angels Sing," "The Stars Together Praise God", "Lover of My Soul" and then I did my cross-over album "The Children Cried" and "The Charge of the Light Brigade", then came "Fahrenheit" about the fire-bombing of Dresden, which was the first dark album and then "A Man For Me", "The Cruel God", and finally "Madness".   At the same time that I was chosen as Epper Woman of the Year I was sleeping around and sustaining myself on amphetimines and cocaine.  I don't even remember that last year except as one confused nightmare.\par
People have asked me about my mother, my manager.  I will be frank here, brutally frank.  I don't know where she is.  Let me say that I was born nine months after she visited a truck stop, which she did on a regular basis as long as I knew her, and my half-sister, Ana, came about the same way. I was named after Ellen Ripley, the heroine in the movie "Alien".   That has been glossed over far too long.  She was not my hero. I have not seen her since I got out of prison. No word. Not a phone call or a letter.  I am letting that situation go with forgiveness, without rancor or bitterness.  It is likely that might come up in discussion with some of you, or leave you wondering.  Those issues are closed. That is all that I have to say to that.\par
My gift caused my little sister Ana grief and pain.  I want to apologize publicly to her for that; I have apologized privately and she accepted my apology.  She took me in when no one else would, when I had no other place to go.  Thank God you cannot get cocaine on the Ranch; this is a safe place and the old dream of a refuge city has come to be in me.  This is my refuge city.\par
Ana will tell you I got the looks and the talent.  She got neither.  She now thanks God for that, because she was not tempted and she did not fall as I did.  She worked through a great many issues and was willing to take me in.  She is supportive.  I was always a beast to her, but she is truly my sister in Christ and not just my half-sister in the flesh. Thank God for forgiveness and the strong woman that Ana is.  Of the two of us, she has the greater gifts.  And I mean it. "If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am nothing." Or sing, for that matter.  Ana loves. Something I am beginning to learn.  I have a long way to go.\par
And now we come to it. Give me a minute. \par
  Allow me.  It is the decision of the Council of the Twelve, and please hold your applause, that Ellen Ripley Bread be allowed to sing in our choir.  Do not applaud.  We hope that she may learn to use her voice for the glory of God as she formerly did. PLEASE. Do not applaud or we will revisit this decision, not on the basis that she is not ready, but because YOU are not ready.  Thank you.  \par
I will be singing in the choir, not doing solos, as part of the team, and singing in such a way that my voice does not stand out.\par
 I know that many of you thought highly of her when she was in her former life. It is the decision and will of the Council that she be treated equally with any other member of the Ranch, as we have no celebrities and no nobodies.  We are significant - we are celebrities in the sight of God and nobodies because of our sins. We are \i simul justus et peccator\i0 , in the old words so familiar to us.  That pertains here.  Ellen will be called Ellen, not by her stage name of Ripley, not by her full name.  You will not applaud her or treat her like a star. She has been instructed to report to the Council anyone who seeks her autograph or expresses infatuation with her or otherwise brings up her singing career and her past or othewise makes her uncomfortable.  Leave her alone to follow God, as you would anyone else.  Because of her background we must state clearly that we have a new choir member, and we implore you to treat it as simply that. Nothing more.  She has the protection of the Council and I am speaking with its authority here and now. Heed me.  It will be difficult for some of you, but the old sinner is dead. The woman before you was dead and is alive again, a new creature, and has come home to Christ and to Father God. For that, you may now applaud.\par

\pard\ul\b\f0\lang1033\par
\par
\b0 Isaiah Wanders\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
"Here's another worm." Eight-year-old Isaiah dangled the worm over the baby's mouth and dropped it in.  Daniel smiled happily and swallowed. Isaiah glanced over to where Mom and Mrs Doakes were talking.  They weren't watching. Lois was down the hall doing \i jongedamme\i0  things. \par
\par
"Your turn," he whispered to Jeremiah. His little brother fed Daniel another worm out of the coffee can. Last time Jeremiah had just watched Isaiah feed worms to their brother. This time he was fully involved. \par
\par
Isaiah listened to the two ladies. On Wednesday mornings Mrs. Doakes came over and talked and prayed with Mom-  they would get their Bibles open and you could get away with stuff when that happened. Mrs. Doakes sometimes started crying, and that was a great time to do things like this. Mom was not paying attention to them: she was looking at Mrs. Doakes.  Had they noticed? No.  Something about the drought. It hadn't rained in a long, long, time.  The wells were drying up, which was fine with Isaiah because it meant he didn't have to take so many baths and there was less mopping around the house. Mrs. Doakes seemed very sad. \par
\par
"Most of the wells are going that way," Mrs. Doakes said. Going what way?\par
\par
"Dust is everywhere," she continued. So what? You could draw in it on the sides of trailers. And Isaiah did not get in so much trouble when he came home - he just had to go outside and shake off the dust.  Other times he would be in lots of trouble for coming home that dirty. He'd even rolled in the dust to see what that was like and Mom hadn't said anything more than "Go outside and dust yourself off, young man." How dirty could he get before he got in trouble, he wondered, and hoped it would not rain for a long, long time.\par
\par
"Even worship is difficult. God seems to have hidden Himself. Fellowship seems strained. Everything is dry, dry, dry."  She should try coming to children's church.  Mrs. Nills liked to use flannelboards.  Flannelboards.  The figures were really, really old, like twenty years old, even, ancient history, and Moses fell off when he was parting the Red Sea. That was as exciting as they got.  He thought about suggesting to Mrs. Doakes that she should try what he had to deal with, but he wasn't supposed to "insert himself into adult conversations or there would be consequences" as Papa put it.  Often it was more interesting to listen, anyway, as long as they thought you weren't listening. \par
\par
Time for another worm.  And Mom was saying something about God being the closest when He seemed the farthest away.  God was weird like that, but God was God and He could do what He wanted.  Or could He? Something about what God wanted to do coming out of his being.  That was a lesson recently - God could not want to do something that contradicted Who He was.  He could not want to do something bad because He was good. He could not sin because He was holy. Stuff like that. Isaiah had not understood everything, but he got that part out of it. Sunday school made him think.  When there were no flannelboards.  \par
\par
Daniel swallowed another worm.  \par
\par
"Exactly what are you two doing?" Mother demanded. The door had shut with Mrs. Doakes on the other side of it. Uh-oh. Now she was not Mom, their friend, protector, comforter.  She was Mother, a towering defender of her youngest, terrible.  She would tell Father, normally Papa, and there would be thunder and lightning before sunset. He took disciplining his children very, very seriously.\par
\par
"We are feeding worms to Daniel." Best to tell the truth.  It would be worse if there was a coverup "often the coverup is worse than the crime" as he had learned from David and Bathsheba and Uriah.\par
\par
"How long have you been doing that? I hope this is the first time."\par
\par
Isaiah and Jeremiah looked at each other.  Daniel looked at them, too, hoping for another worm.\par
\par
"Several days, Mother," Isaiah said, lowering his head.  He only called her 'Mother' when he knew he was in trouble.\par
\par
"Several days.  Several days.  And I didn't - well, he has been sleeping better, but STOP IT. Several days.  Oh, my.  Perhaps the doctor should be consulted.  Where did you get the worms? AND DON'T DO IT AGAIN."\par
\par
"Yes, ma'am. Our greehouse."  \par
\par
Before he knew it, Isaiah found himself outside.  He has no idea what Jeremiah's fate was. 'Mortal men doomed to die', he said to himself.\par
\par
\lang9 "Now, scoot,"Mama had said.  She and his three younger brothers were going to take a nap. Isaiah, all of eight years old, had done his morning chores and his arithmetic, reading and Bible - he was starting Greek, and the Gospel of John was challenging  and he was getting energetic. But Mama wanted piece and quiet, so out he went.  Lois, their \i jongedame\i0 , was now working quietly in the kitchen.  Like many young women of marriagable age among the Eppers, she was learning to run a household from Mama, who was her Second Mother.  She already knew how to run a household from her own mother, and now she was helping Mama, assisting in the cooking and cleaning and everything that went into an Epper home.  Soon she would get married and have a household of her own.  That was just the way of it, she had told Isaiah.  \par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Through the door he heard heard Mama quietly asking little Zeke why he had covered himself with butter. AGAIN.   He didn't want to stick around for what might happen next.  Despite his urgent need to get out of there, something Mom and he were in agreement on, Isaiah had opened the door carefully because he knew the big dog would be lying there at that time of day.  Boomer stopped snoring,  raised his head and thumped his tail, twice, as Isaiah stepped over him. No sense whacking him with the door.  The porch was still cool from the daily scrubbing.  But that would be about it regarding movement as far as Boomer was concerned, except maybe to eat and so forth and find a cooler place to snooze.  He was a big old mastiff acquired to herding cattle, but he was lazy, so now he was a pet. Papa said he was on guard duty, and as proof no Sumerians had ever invaded.   Mama would not have him inside.  Boomer  occupied most of the stoop while the sun was not too hot.   Now he watched Isaiah lazily on this scorching hot day, and Isaiah stuck to the shade as he made his way down the concrete path.  Later Boomer would find a shady spot or even wangle his way into the Warren somehow when Mama wasn't looking, which would be about it for him and exercise. Now, back to snoring. And drooling.\par
Isaiah wondered what Sumerians looked like today.  There were pictures in his English book. They had beards and spears and fought lions.  Maybe they were all off fighting lions, which was why they had not invaded.  Isaiah was glad they had not invaded. "Sargon the Great". He didn't know anyone named Sargon.  Were Sauron and Sargon related? Probably not, he decided.  Sargon was just a story.  Mordor was still there, somewhere southeast, maybe east of Mississippi. He wasn't sure about those foreign parts. Someday he wanted to go see Kirith Ungol. And climb Mount Doom.\cf1\f1\par

\pard\cf0\f0 Between the trailers it was still cooler than out in the sun, something that would change and the path would be too hot to walk on barefoot later in the day, when the sun pounded heat into it.  Isaiah looked up at the brightly colored praise flags, most with words embroidered, all with Biblical themes: Joy, Praise, Grace, Faith, or pictures: sheep, trumpets, a rainbow, or Hebrew or Greek words or phrases.  All were motionless in the hot sun, even above the roofs. No wind, not even up there. Whoever had made the one with the sheep had made it so that it looked like the sheep was running when there was wind, but today it was a droopy hot sheep.\f1  \f0\lang1033\par
\par
He wandered around the trailers. Papa said there were twenty left, and of them only fifteen could be lived in.  He was not allowed to go  where trailers had been, and pipes stuck up out of the ground, even though they were down in a hole.  It was kind of fun because it was like a maze and you could get lost.  And people had done things with the trailers, because they had lived in them a long time.  No two were alike.  Some had stone over the trailers like a second skin; some had porches; some, like the Warren, were several trailers stuck together to make a bigger house and sometimes things were built onto them.  Mostly they'd been painted white for the summer.  They got painted black during cold weather - it had something to do with the sun, but Isaiah didn't know what.  There was a big area where trailers used to be, but that wasn't as interesting, and it was all in the sun. One trailer had burned down not so long ago, and you could still smell smoke near it.  They were waiting for it to completely cool.  There had only been Mr. O'Brian living alone, and he had saved and stacked every newspaper and magazine, all his mail, everything, for years, so there were only narrow pathways through the trailer.  He'd been fine - something fell on a burner and he had escaped, watching his life, he had told Isaiah: it was instructive, because everything will pass through fire, and his time seemed to be coming soon.  He had moved into one of the cave homes as he called them and was living with a family in Hair Bair.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 Next to the Warren was Boom's, and on the other side of that was the burned out trailer.  Mr. Boom always had time to talk to Isaiah, though he had a press of work, as he said.  He had two trailers joined together, one to live in and one to work in.   Isaiah was allowed to open the door and go into the work trailer.  He hummed as he passed through the shelves, two feet deep, two feet of walking space, then four feet of shelves, then there was another narrow passage way, then two more feet of shelf across the twelve foot trailer, the shelves crammed floor to ceiling with all sorts of broken things in need of repair or that had something of interest.  He remembered this because it had been a math problem: how wide was the trailer? 2+2+4+2+2=12.  Or if he knew how wide the trailer was, and it was 14 feet wide, how wide was the second aisle?   He popped out of the shelves into the work area with benches and tools and neat things like that in the trailer.   Mr. Boom was watching over the shoulder of his older teenager who was his apprentice; other man worked for Mr Boom.  Mr. Boom was tall and thin and had no hair, except for a moustache and eyebrows that seemed to go everywhere, all white.  The moustache fascinated Isaiah because it stuck straight out, like Mama's hairbrush glued to a human lip or something. Sometimes his eyebrows stuck out like that, but today only the right one did; the other just sort of went everywhere. \par
Isaiah inhaled the Boom-smell, a mixture of oil and metal.  Mysterious things had been heated and soldered.  Isaiah liked the sharp smell, so different from cooking or Mama or the dog.  Papa smelled that way, sometimes, when he came home, depending on what he did that day. The three were talking, and four different arguments were going on at the same time.  It was like that around here a lot.  Isaiah was not allowed to solder.  The list of things Isaiah was not allowed to do was a lot longer than he would like, and it always seemed to be getting longer as he found out about new things.  There was "welding" which was a mystery he was not allowed anywhere near. It was mentioned.  So was the Labor Day picnic, which was more American than Epper. And there was the right way to fix a can opener sitting there, open and exposed, helpless in the middle of surgery. At least one more overlapping discussion was weaving its way through the others, but Isaiah did not follow it at all. \par
"We did things that way because it was right! People figured it out and then we didn't have to figure it out again!" this was Mr. Boom's voice, booming at his apprentice.  Isaiah used to think there was a connection.  But he had been ten Boom in Holland, and now he was just one Boom. Most Eppers dropped those funny little words like "van" and "ten" when they came to America. So he was Mr. Boom.\par
"But God speaks today."\par
"But the old ways don't always apply. Things change, Mr. Boom."  this was Josiah,  the non-apprentice.\par
"And how do you know He is speaking? Do you seek Him, or does He speak on His own initiative? I fear presumption here, deadly presumption. It is one thing to be open to the gifts, the other to be open to all supernatural phenomenae uncritically!"\par
"So we figure it out, again, like we did the first time. Don't just throw it out because it is old and you don't know why! New is not always better!"\par
"We must trust the Lord and allow Him to speak as He wishes."\par
"That's not what I'm saying. Not at all."  \par
"The canon is closed. Not one word is to be added to Scripture!"\par
"But there is prophecy not recorded, that is to be judged by Scripture!"\par
"How can it be revelation if it is less than Scripture? How can it be the Holy Spirit if He is supposedly speaking in a sub-par manner? It seems to me that is against His dignity!"\par
"Ah, Isaiah!" Mr. Boom got up from his workbench. He had a large heavy apron and googles with magnifying lens.  He took these and his gloves off, and bent down to see Isaiah eye to eye.  The two others turned back to their benches. "Mysticism," one of them muttered, and then they were silent.\par
"Whatcha doing?"\par
"This toaster is in serious need of something.  I am not sure what.  It does not work.  With patience it will tell me its secrets, and then either it will have life again as a toaster, or we will turn it into a clock or something!"  Mr. Boom showed him the opened toaster. "The wires are fine, it seems, but it just burns toast.  The timer is not solid state, thank the Good Lord. There is nothing you can do with solid state.  I do not fix solid state. It cannot be fixed if it is solid state.  I do not have the patience for the circuit board.  People make these too complicated: who wants a programmable toaster he has to throw away? Who has time to program the toaster? Give me simple levers and we can make it run forever, but if it is solid state, it is a different matter entirely.  All we can do with those is put them up until we figure out what we can do with them. Now, Isaiah, is there a purpose to your visit? It is not to chase you off, that I ask, only it is that sometimes you are a messenger or something."\par
Isaiah liked the way Mr. Boom talked.  He was actually Dutch, although he had spoken English most of his life.  There was music in his voice, which Isaiah has pointed out once, and Mr. Boom laughed and said it was an accent.  He was from a small Epper village in the Netherlands, although he did not like to talk about it much.  Papa had told Isaiah not to ask, he would learn about it when he was older.  That was fine with Isaiah. It was a toaster, not a can opener.  They had neither one at home. Mama believed in cooking the old way, and fancy appliances had no place.  \par
"Noo, it is just Mama is resting."\par
"And you are eight.  And, you are Isaiah Poller.  And it is hot outside.  Did I show you the geothermal well?"\par
This was one of the things Isaiah really liked about Mr. Boom.  He was always doing neat things, and then showing them to Isaiah.\par
"What is a geo- geothermal well?"\par
"Ah, what does your Greek tell you about the word 'geothermal?'\par
"I don't know a word geotha."\par
"No, no.  Geo:  from ge, earth,  thermal: from thermos, heat. Earth-heat.  We can pump water down into holes and it comes back hotter or colder than water at the surface. Hotter in the winter, cooler in the summer.  It is always the same temperature down there.  Look at this." And Mr. Boom took him outside, through his back door, where there was only one step down to the gravel. Although he was old, Mr. Boom jumped down spryly. Isaiah followed him, both of them avoiding the one step.  There was a round cover with some pipes sticking out of it, and a motor. A softly-humming pump. "I am trying to see if we can heat and cool our homes with geothermal energy in a way that would make sense. You see these wires? Someone else is monitoring it. You know how cool it is in my trailers? Well, it is being heated - now, cooled - by geothermal energy.  If it works we will use it throughout the Ranch. Feel it."\par
Isaiah touched the cover where he was told to.  It was cool. He compared it to the ground. It was actually cooler on the cover.  Mr. Boom carefully replaced the cover. Mr. Boom stepped back up into the trailer and Isaiah followed. Neither used the step.  Mr. Boom  smiled. "That can be your word for the day. "Geo-thermal."\par
Isaiah already had ten Greek words for the day, to memorize and use until he was comfortable with them.  But he politely gave thanks.\par
"Now, I am afraid we have a lot of work going on.  And this evening we are going to do some aluminum casting, if you would like to come and watch. Check with your parents, first, and we have to get ready for that. I wish I had more time for you today."\par

\pard Isaiah headed to the Hanger, which was a big open building , the last in a line of hangers, where workmen stripped everything out of old trailers for reused or salvage.  It was also the last in the line, because the others had been torn down and their metal parts taken somewhere underground, like a beetle dismembered by ants and taken into the nest in a picture book they had at home.  Much of the settlement was underground.  His own family lived in the Warren because Papa said they would be the last to move out of a trailer.   He could also find something to do or climb, most of the time, and sometimes they would even let him help with the work.  He could collect screws if they were removing siding, or sweep if they were doing something that generated a lot of dust. Idleness was the devil's playground, he had been taught, and there was a lot of work to be done, always, everywhere. The trouble was, a lot of it needed more strength and skill than he had.  Just a matter of time. But there was always something to do, even in this last trailer with its row of half-cut up trailers and its other row of power saws and tool cabinets. The Hanger was tall, and he had been told not to climb it.  Next to it was the last of the greenhouses, as farming was being moved underground.  There had been a row of them, a long row, but they had been cut up and removed, with their parts stored somewhere in the tunnels under Hair Bair.  They had lots of tunnels, Papa said, and the Warren was not the warren that Hair Bair was.  Isaiah was still working on that.  It meant he lived in the Warren, but...something. There were some big rooms underground but not much to climb on, but the houses cut into the quarry wall were very nice, anyway. Sometimes he would go with Papa through some of the tunnels when Papa was working - there were always pipes on one side, and a place you could drive a motor buggy on the other.  You would come to thick doors and you would go through them, and if you went through enough of those doors you could hear them drilling off in the distance, making the tunnels longer.  They sold the rock, Papa said.  They used to build with it but that had changed. "Life changes," Papa has said. "You think it will go one way and then it goes another."\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Old Silas was slowly sweeping with the big floor broom - the one Isaiah got to use when Silas was somewhere else. Silas was past lifting anything heavy. He dressed like he always did, in a suit. He often said he was ready to be buried and that would save someone the trouble of changing his clothes.  He was looking forward to the afterlife, but there was nothing morbid about it - he had a twinkle in his eye and was happy at the idea of seeing God face to face,  and hearing His Voice, and the relief from bodily weariness and pain and weakness.   If he got a chance, he would lecture you for a long time on whatever came to mind, particularly on seeking first the Kingdom of God.   Silas was interesting to listen to.  He'd fought in a war, traveled around the country as a hobo, lived homeless on the street, lived in a rescue mission, worked as an unskilled laborer, and had wound up on the Ranch.  He had arrived when the place started up, just another bum looking for a handout, but one who slowly found himself willing to work.  He had seen it all, allowed it to percolate for years, and with the wisdom of the Good Book, was ready and willing to dispense his hard-won wisdom.  He was prepared to die, even though at ninety-five he still woke up at four am and worked until ten pm, six days a week.  He had given everything he had away and slept in the small room he kept in an old dilapidated trailer, one of the first that had arrived when they had had to deal with six thousand people descending on the place, a trailer that had seen heavy use and abuse.   He drank water and ate two pieces of bread and an apple every day. He admired the cenobites (Isaiah loved that word, cenobite, it sounded neat) of old, although those guiding him had ruled out a hair shirt and chains years ago when he had suggested it.  He was waiting to go see Jesus. He was ready and willing and had made his peace with the world and everyone in it, holding nothing against anyone and not causing anyone any grief of note.  He would wake in the morning and sigh, and then say, "thank you, Lord, for another day. You know what you are doing, keeping me here. You must have your reasons." And then, off he would go about the day's work.  He was not of this world, and his thoughts were mostly of the other.  Silas was interesting to listen to, but sometimes Isaiah did not understand what he was talking about, and sometimes he was scary, sometimes funny. And you never knew what he would say.  He would tell you he was mostly on the other side, just a step away.\par
Silas was sometimes found outside, staring into the sky.  What are you looking at? Isaiah once asked him.  "Oh, I'm just looking at Jesus sitting on His throne," he replied, and then returned to what he had been doing.  Isaiah looked up to where Silas had been looking, but he saw nothing but empty sky. "Huh," he had said, "Huh."\par
\par
The last trailer was the only one being stripped, already partly down to the steel frame.  Two men with masks were stripping out the insulation from what had been the kitchen wall.\f1\par
\f0 Matt was one of the two men.  Although he was a teenager, he counted as a man. Isaiah was eight, so he was almost a teenager, so he was also counted as a man, although no one seemed to see it that way. Isaiah liked to remind himself of that fact. Matt, fifteen, would have argued with this. Isaiah climbed up the side and sat on the steel next to Matt, not using the ladder.  It was a point of pride with Isaiah to not use ladders. Matt was up on a step ladder inside the trailer and was cutting out insulation. Under a ball cap he had a mask under his goggles and heavy gloves and heavy overalls on. He looked like he was a spaceman.  This impressed Isaiah immensely.  Matt was not that much older than Isaiah, but capable of doing a man's work.  But now Matt looked like a real grown-up. He had gotten his height and his shoulders were beginning to widen and strengthen.  Next year, Isaiah told himself, he would look like that. Papa was big, so it was possible.  Maybe he would be taller than Matt next year. And stronger. \f1\par
\f0 Micah was talking about Julie, a girl who had left the Ranch the day before.  Both Micah and Matt had liked her, although she was in her twenties.  She had yelled at Elder Yarrock before leaving. \par
"What's pat-ri-arch-i-al-op-pres-sion?" Isaiah asked, pronouncing the new word carefully.  Matt looked blank. \par
"Sorry, Isaiah. Watch the knife. I don't have anything for you right now. Silas is sweeping the place to make sure no insulation wanders off. We are doing light work today because of the heat."\par
After a minute Matt asked him, "What do you want?"\par
"I don't know.  I'm looking for Papa."  It was always interesting to shadow Papa. "What do YOU want?" \par
"Oh. Girls. Gold. Glory." Matt grinned under his mask. Isaiah could see the smile around his eyes.  There had been a recent sermon about those three particular dangers in the life of a man.\par
\f1 "Julie's gone, Matt." Micah chimed in.\par
"Girls? Yech. And Gold? Not interested. And glory? That is God's alone." Isaiah replied.\par
"Wait until you're older."\par
Silas was drawn by this. "Not a thing to be joked about, Matt and Isaiah. Such frivolity and levity.  Many have fallen to those three things. Many lives ruined. I have known good men who have fallen for those. Lives ruined. Marriages ruined. Prison. Pride. Despair." He moved off, muttering. "Do not be enamored of the things of this world. There are better things coming, far finer things, things that eye has not seen nor ear heard, prepared for the Lord's beloved. The day is coming.  Yes, the day is coming.  Come quickly, Lord Jesus. Here I am, Lord."   Silas suddenly turned around and raised his hand, palm outward, towards Matt.\par
"You're not after a theology of glory, I hope. But a theology of the CROSS?"   Sometimes Isaiah had no idea of what Silas was talking about.\par
"I never found those spiral stairs," Matt said. "I never looked.  God came down to us. We do not ascend to Him. Not by our efforts. Grace, man."\par
"Me, neither." Micah was usually silent, but apparently felt provoked.  Isaiah didn't know him very well.\par
"I should hope not.  That's why they cleared out the Mathom House." Silas was ready to roll. You could tell.  "It used to be people would go in those narrow aisles and find a staircase -sometimes - and strange things would happen."\par
"What sorts of things?"\par
"Things no human should see.  At least not on earth.  Some said it was the beatific vision. That got the concern of the elders.  The Word - mind you, the WORD, comes, and faith comes by hearing.  We walk by faith, not by SIGHT.  We don 't have some upper-story experience to see God.  And those people all claimed to see Him, they were all ALONE. We know God together, in community, not on some strange not-always-there mezzanine you reach by a spiral stair."\par
"The elders never condemned it."\par
"And none ever found the stairs, either.  That is something to consider, and to regard as a warning."\par
"In what way, then, Silas?" Isaiah had trouble understanding Silas sometimes.\par
"What are you afraid of, Silas?" Matthew wanted to know.\par
"I am not afraid. But I do not want the people of God led astray by visions and things that are not confirmed by the elders, either."\par
"The elders chose to neither confirm or condemn those experiences."\par
"Something to think about," Silas muttered, "Just something to think about. That is what I am saying." And he moved off, muttering and sweeping.  \par
Then he was back. "Absolute certainty? Seeing the face of God? Those are not things for now. We walk by faith, not by sight.  Demanding total proof and demanding that we KNOW with absolute certainty is idolatry. Idolatry, my friend. We walk by faith.  The ear hears whatever is there, the eye commands what it sees and chooses.  Our faith is a faith of HEARING not SIGHT."  Silas was not satisfied that he had made his point, and the whish-shwish of his broom resumed.\par
Matt and Isaiah looked at each other. \par
"Where's my papa?"\par
"Sorry, I don't know.  And you need to stay away from insulation, pardner. This stuff is bad news if you breathe it in. I am afraid I will have to ask you to leave.  You don't want it on you, either."\par
"Awww."  Isaiah climbed down and stood about ten feet away, close to the wide open door. He WAS leaving. \par
"How come the fan's not on?" It was a big old box fan, taller than Isaiah.  Like a lot of other things, it had been made from recycled trailer parts, although the craftsmanship was better than store bought. Ranch-made was well-made, carefully crafted, strong and pleasing to the eye with a spare beauty.\par
"We don't want this stuff blowing around. Now, go."\par

\pard Isaiah looked around for a moment. No Papa. \f0\lang1033\par
\par
Isaiah looked at Quarryface Wall Topside.  He was not allowed near it.  On the other side of it was a three-story drop.  Into the limestone face below tunnels had been cut, and now houses were in those tunnels, with big windows in the front, three levels deep.  Down at the bottom was Quarry Pond.  It was always cool there, so he headed down Quarryface steps and found himself near the pond.  He went down the ramp, farther than he had ever gone before.  He imagined the motorbuggies full of rock going up the ramp and going back down empty.  He looked at the turn where they used to have a big post and somehow they had pulled the buggies up and down with something called a cable, but it was more than he could figure out, like a lot of things. Agatha, for example. She was his age and she liked to write stories.  He liked her and he hoped she liked him.  But he did not understand her.  Maybe he would, when he was older.   At water's edge he laid down with his arms over the side of the ramp and stuck his arms in the water.  No fish.  The water was clear and he could see the next turn of the ramp down into the water, and part of the turn after that, but there the water was dark. The fish must have gone deep, and even the water was warm.  He had had to go way down the ramp.  It was dark and deep down there.  How close was it to the center of the earth down there anyway?  From here he could looked up at the spillway and then at the Quarryface houses.   This used to be a quarry, he told himself.  He imagined the wagons and the drills. Chugga-chugga-chugga. He had a book with a steam digging machine.  Chugga-chugga-chugga.  He dug some water out with his hand, splashing.  Chugga-chugga-chugga.  He wished Agatha was there.  She never was, though, and he never invited her, either. Liking her was his secret. \par
\par
"Isaiah Poller,what are you doing?" It was Mrs. Greene's voice, somewhere overhead.\par
\par
"Nothing, ma'am," he said. He stood up and looked up at her. He wiped his wet hands on the back of his pants, and then remembered he wasn't supposed to do that.  Mrs. Greene was up behind the little fence at the edge of her yard, one Isaiah was not allowed to climb. She had a small yard before her house, and below the fence the cliff-face dropped down another fifteen feet to where the next house was, giant stairs cut into the cliff. Two small figures stood with her, one on each side.  Elizabeth clutched her mother's skirt with one hand and sucked her thumb with the other. Ben, her twin, stared down at Isaiah, open mouthed. After a minute he stuck his thumb in his mouth, too, and stared some more.  \par
\par
"Well, I think you had best be doing nothing somewhere else. The pond is no place to play, especially alone.  It's best you be on your way."\par
\par
"Yes ma'am," he called back.  So up the ramp he climbed, his arms quickly drying, but he turned off where the spillway was.  Mrs. Greene was still watching him.  Papa said it was a weir, not a spillway, but Isaiah called it a spillway. Anyway in wet weather it was a creek that went off east,a creek that had been cut in the rock, and there was some good climbing on parts of the walls.  And no one could see him! It was dry, anyway.\par
\par
It was cool there, cooler than up in the sun, and he climbed happily for a while until he got bored. The walls got lower as he walked along, sometimes past metal doors and pipes that were set in the side of the side of the canyon, the doors higher up and the pipes lower, always under rock overhangs, and he got to where there was no shade. Instead of heading back down the spillway he cut left and walked over the open fields back towards Hair Bair, which was further away than he would have thought.  This ws rocky flat land with scrawny grass and a few trees here and there struggling to make it.  \par
\cf2\f1\lang9\par
\cf0\f0 Here was a ventilation shaft.  It was cleverly disguised to look like a pile of rock.  It was no taller than he was.  He'd been told not to climb these things.  He looked at it.  He could not \i climb\i0  it.  No, that had included \i staying off \i0 it. When he was a kid he used to find ways to do things that did not really mean he was being disobedient.  But he had received a lecture on 'obeying the spirit of the law and not just the letter'.  That meant mainly that he got instructions using every word they could find to describe it: he was not to touch, climb, get on, walk up, and he was told to stay off, stay away, keep off, and keep away from the ventilation shafts.  Papa had taken him to the top of one once, where the vents came out of the rock. Sometimes they had to be cleaned. You could see a little biit further from the top of one than you could on the ground. He wanted to look a long, long way. Maybe he could see Mount Doom, which was somewhere to the southeast.  Or the Empire State Building, to the northeast.  Over in the west was the Golden Gate Bridge.  All worth seeing, if he could get high enough. But if you climbed these things, you could disturb the rocks, which was little kid stuff. He was too old to go disturbing the rocks.  "I'm eight, now," he said to himself,"too old for kid stuff."\f1\par
\par
\f0 He turned and looked towards home, and in case anyone was watching, he moved away from the pile, just in case.  Even the Hanger was tiny.  This was a long way from home.  Papa said much of Hair Bair had been moved underground, including the church, the schools, and offices. Underground facilities had natural light through sky lights, mirrors  and walk-outs.  Papa said they always worried about water, but the limestone here was good and they found ways to drain it. There was electricity, because of something called a reactor he was not allowed anywhere near and he was not supposed to know anything about, but Papa had mentioned it once, and Isaiah put the pieces together.  Somehow the reactor made sure there was electricity, but it did not burn wood.  And the reactor was not here - it was up north, and some of the tunnels were not for living in but just for moving stuff, like electricity.  \par
\par
Not everything was underground, after all.  There was the hanger, or rather the top of it.  Suddenly he thought about climbing it. You could probably see pretty far from up there.  But there was the greenhouse, even taller, right next to it. Instead of a straight climb up to the roof, there were the corners, and then there was the roof, all at an angle.  It would have to be done in the early morning, before it got hot.  Hot metal in the sun was too hot to hold onto. \par
\f1\par
\f0\lang1033\par
 \par
 [Ranch Isaiah Poller sequence], then giving the reader a tour, , as he wandered around Ha'ir Bair, which he calls Hare Bare, two syllables. Some people called it Ir Habira. It was Hebrew, and nobody knew if it was supposed to mean the capital city or the bright city. \par
\par
Among other things he sees the old foundation of the stable. It had burned down years ago. Papa said it had been a real work of art, the masterpiece of a master craftsman. Someone named Paul had built it long ago.  Boom's trailers had places where you walked on boards because the particle board floor failed.  He liked it like that because he used the space underneath for storage. His trailers were wearing out, too.  Soon they all would be. Many were already cut into pieces and were being used - cannibalized - cannibalized: he liked that word.  Cannibalized.  \par
\par
Isaiah watched as one of the wild donkeys - they had escaped captivity years ago, and proved too cunning to be caught - got up on the ridge opposite and sniffed for grass, then disappeared down the other side.\par
\par
He heard a train on the the Katy RR, which ran along the west side of Nicholls County, a quarter mile east of the state line. Foot access to the west side is possible via large culverts and bridges.  His Papa once put him in a motorbuggy and they bumped their way to a hilltop, where they looked down and watched a train, full speed, hurtling down the tracks.  Papa told him to stay off railroad bridges because you never know when they may show up and you can get caught and killed. In fact, never go on railroad tracks, ever. Don't even go close. \par
\par
 \par
On Friday morning Isaiah climbed the greenhouse partly to show off to Agatha Pflumm, but mostly to see if he could see Snake Woods, somewhere else he was forbidden from going near. [Isaiah climbs a greenhouse] Agatha was the same age as Isaiah, but she was inside, writing her stories.  She wrote in a beautiful, clear, rounded feminine script with the potential for calligraphic brilliance when she wais older,  in a variety of scripts based on the calligraphy books she had been given. She told  stories about tea parties, as she had since before she could read, involving Rag Doll, Teddy, the Cat, and the Purple Unicorn. Sometimes the Yelllow Unicorn.  They had dull, moralizing conversations about whatever Scripture or moral lesson Agatha had been exposed to that day. Her mother filed them neatly in folders and in file boxes. Rag Doll, in particular, exhorted against the waste of time and laziness and for 'good, honest labor and industry'. In support of that Agatha was only allowed to write for fifteen minutes a day, as most of her time was indeed taken up in good, honest labor and industry.  Teddy moralized on the virtues of thrift and honesty.  The Cat was lazy and never seemed to get the lessons often directed at her. Teddy was fond of keeping your hands off what belonged to others, not being a thief and not stealing.  Above all do not steal glory from God.  She liked to have Teddy list all the ways you could steal glory from God, like self-praise, not-trusting, not-loving what He has made, wastiing time, over-eating, not giving thanks in all things.  \par
\par
The dogs were aware of the unseen boundaries of their own territories and did not cross into other territories unless ordered to.  They were aware of course of who belongs to their own settlement.  Other people from the Ranch were tolerated but could expect several curious dogs to sniff them and accompany them.  People they have been introduced to usually were tolerated, but strangers got barks, growls, even up to an escalation of attacks if they do not leave.  If they threatened the dogs or Ranch people the dogs would not hesitate. They were trained to take down and immobilize although fully capable of killing.  Isaiah's dog stopped at a certain point and barked as Isaiah and Jeremiah headed for Snake Woods, then returned home.\par
\par
\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0 Isaiah  fought the fire at his father's side.\par
\par
\par
He and Jeremiah went down to what was left of Snake Woods, which had been burned out.  He found many bones, human and animal, in Snake Woods.  He may have been the first to ever explore it. Jeremiah found a hole with a tree sticking out of it.  He climbed down it and landed on a shelf as the tree fell further  He found  coins in the hole and climbed out even as the hole was collapsing and expanding.  He went to Butler's in Nicholls and bought a banana split with 1865 coins, telling the boy behind the counter to keep the change.  He left a stunned crowd there staring at the coins.  Once outside, they came out chasing him and he lost the people chasing him by his climbing ability.  He was interviewed in his home by the Sherriff, someone on the Council of 12, and his father.  \ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0\par
"We took down Greenhouse Two today," Papa told Katy, with Isaiah overhearing. \par
\par
\cf2\f1\lang9 Drainage was always an concern -  they never depended on pumps to keep these structures dry, which could pose a challenge in the flat terrain.  They took what advantage they could of the terrain.  The old trailers were still partly occupied, and the hangers were being torn down starting at the west end.   after limestone mining cleared space, as if earth-sheltered.  In 2016 the old hangers were being stripped.  What residential housing there was above ground, aside from the trailers and a few small wood frame houses was locally cut stone. \par
\par
Other settlements do not necessarily follow that as a pattern, whether from preference, custom, geography or availability.  Hair Bair is in an unusually good limestone area without faults. \par
\cf0\f0\lang1033\par
\par
"Is there really that much ground underground - I mean, in the tunnels of course?"\par
\par
"Yes. I figure this settlement alone has about two hundred acres at present down there, and they aren't done yet."\par
\par
"I don't know.  It seems odd to me to be eating everything grown hydroponically."\par
\par
"Well, the ground won't do much here.  And the greenhouses were too expensive to keep up. People have been trying to grow plants for decades here."\par
\par
"I understand the Muellers gave up, long ago. That was over a century ago."\par
\par
"Yes.  But we get no bugs underground.  No plant diseases blow in. No frost and no heat.  It's a cool 56 degrees down there, away from the heaters, year round.  Some plants, such as cabbage and kale, do well without the heaters. Others need it. We now know the crops take less work down there, are less expensive, and the quality is better than above ground.  Someone over in - I can't think of where - but someone, down south on the Ranch - someone is working on improving the grow lights.  The ones we have now have a range very close to that of natural light, but they are working on improving it.  Some kind of LED.  I don't know much about it."\par
\par
"I don't know if I could ever get used to being underground."\par
\par
"The houses have big windows, you know."\par
\par
"Yes."\par
\par
"And we've been through more than one storm here in the Warren where we wished we were underground."\par
\par
"There is that."\par
\par
"No heating bills, no air conditioning bills - I'm looking forward to it, even if we are the last ones down there.  And I promised that."\par
\par
"How many families are still up here?"\par
\par
"Six or so.  Other people feel like you do.  Not cave critters, I guess."\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
"Did you see a diamond? Any bones?"\par
"No," Isaiah replied,"I mean, no diamond.  There were lots of bones, You couldn't walk without stepping on something."\par
"Any shiny rock?"\par
"It was kind of dark. I saw the coins, and there were snakes down below where I was. But no shiny rock."\par
"What about insects? Were there bugs? Biting flies?"\par
"No," Isaiah said,"People say there are some down there. But I didn't see any. Maybe they got all burned up."\par
The men looked at each other. "Maybe we should send someone down there to look at it, survey the situation."\par
"We'll need authorization from DNR to enter that area."\par
"It's burned. Do you think we still do?"\par
"They've been very adamant in the past. I think we need to contact them first."\par
"How long do you think that will take?"\par
"Maybe a couple of weeks."\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f1\lang9\par

\pard\f0\lang1033 The Council of Twelve responded to the fire with call for a Joel 1:19 prayer meeting and thanksgiving service for all settlements.  But the fire started south of Ha'ir Bair and did not touch settlements in the far south.  It started on Ranch land.  Although it swept passed Nicholls, it did not reach the Cass County line. There was rain to the north. \par
\par
Isaiah's Papa was working on replacing Pump #5 in Ha'ir Mayam.  That pump burned out from overruse. (They had previously lowered it using wooden beams, which had splintered, and replaced that with iron beams, which is why he was involved - and, as happens, the accessway had become cluttered, including with a small stone building, and the well was also collapsing: the stone walls were poorly laid a long time ago, maybe in the War, so the building had to come down). It was  one of the few remaining wells at Ha'r Mayam that had been drilled during the war and later reopened by persons unknown, who had lined it with limestone blocks in the remote past for some distance down.  Twenty feet at least, because that was as deep as anyone had gone in Pa's time here - usually there was water rising to that point, but now all the limestone blocks were exposed.   Ha'ir Bair was importing water from here.   The wells were now marginal and there was talk of drilling deeper wells or even another well field elsewhere, but that cost money and no decision had been made.  The wells were marginal. All rain barrels were empty.\par
\par
Water trucks came daily to Ha'ir Bair and even to Ha'ir Mayam.  Isaiah was watched - he had been told to stay off the water trucks, and they are not convinced he will obey.  He did not appreciate not being trusted with this. Water was  rationed, and Mama had not scrubbed the steps for several weeks, and Isaiah's clothes were getting itchy because they had not been washed for a long time, at least not with water that had not been used for baths already. \par
\par
Katie Poller discussed with her husband what to do about the regulatory fines they were faced with, and a letter they  received.  It was a friendly-sounding offer to loan them the money to pay all their fines, using the Ranch as collateral.   Tempting, but Eppers do not take on loans from outsiders, and the Johnson Bank always seemed interested in the Ranch in an uncomfortable way.  How did Johnson Bank know about the fines?  Probably public information, but this was not the first time they received such a letter. It is like that bank is monitoring their problems with the federal and state regulatory agencies.  Katy will recommend that The Council of 12  not  accept the offer.  Katie is uneasy with the letter from the bank. They do not even have an account there.  The Ranch has a checking account at the Bank of Nicholls, which come to think of it is owned by the Johnson Bank, but why are they so interested in this?\par
\par
Papa told her about the death of the Nicholls Hardware Store owner.  It seemed he had gotten into debt way over his head with Johnson Bank and he had killed himself last night. Johnson Bank was now directly taking over Nicholls Hardware.  Someone had gone in there today to buy lumber and had been told they had been instructed not to sell anything to the Ranch, or to anyone from the Ranch. That was about the fifth business in Nicholls now like that. "I don't like the sound of that." "No. I wonder what their ultimate aim is.  I think their ultimate aim is to take over the Ranch." "A lot of people have been thinking that." \par
\par
There were also some soft spots on the floor of the bathroom - particle board was  giving way. "The Warren is wearing out.  These trailers are old. It's not the first floor that has softened that we have replaced - remember the kitchen, two years ago?" "I  put my foot through it then - that's how we found it. I was moving something heavy - we were between jongedammen, and you were pregnant.  It was a big pot of water, very heavy. It was cold but it went everywhere."  They laughed at the memory. \par
\par
"Does the earth have ears, Papa?"  Papa looked at Isaiah across the dining table.\par
\par
"Ears? Why do you ask?"\par
\par
"Well, we read today," and here he glanced at Lois,"Land, land, land, hear the word of the Lord, in Jeremiah, and so I asked Lois if the earth has ears.  She said to ask you."\par
\par
"Did she, now?"  Papa continued to look at Isaiah. He smiled, thinking of something funny. He paused for a minute. "I think it means, people of the land, hear the word of the Lord. I think it's called \i synecdoche\i0  - it's a figure of speech where one part represents something else, here, the land is the people and the land, and thus the people. Like when they talk about Europe thinks...Europe does not have a brain. They mean the Europeans."\par
\par
"I see.  Or 'Minas Tirith shines bright' means the people glow?"\par
\par
"No, that is the city itself, or rather the buildings of the city."\par
\par
"How can you tell the difference?"\par
\par
"That will come with time, my son."\par
\par
\ul In the Basement of the Bank of Nicholls\ulnone\par
\par
In the windowless room under the Bank of Nicholls three metal chairs had the old metal table surrounded, two on one side and the last opposite, that last chair dominated by a  man in his late twenties sitting erect but trying to give the impression he dominated everything he came in touch with, except for the respect paid to the two opposite. One opposite worked for the Bank of Nicholls, the other, the one dominating both the Bank of Nicholls employee and the man opposite, was from Johnson Bank in Harrisonville, now the owner of Nicholls Bank as had happened some time ago following the economic troubles of 2008. It was clear, this man's whole being said, that he was the interviewer and the answers better be quick and right and what he wanted to hear, information he conveyed without speaking, information just somehow hanging in the room, like a sign.   The man from Harrisonville held a folder, the only paper in the room, the only thing not grey like the walls, the table, the chairs, his suit.  Whatever the Nicholls Bank employee looked like was beside the point. There was no chit chat - the Nicholls employee smiled and said, "Any Marine in Nicholls is welcome." The man from Harrisonville looked at him, and turned to the interviewee. "Whiggins, I see you spent most of your time in the stockade." "Yes. Yes, sir." "Why should we hire you for anything?" Silence. "Tell you what.  We are looking for an employee.  You will get $40,000 a year, use of a car, medical insurance and free housing. And a clothing allowance.  Sounds good?" "Yes." "Only you will do whatever we tell you, and you will not talk about it to anyone else. Is that understood?' He nodded. "And we mean it when we say 'whatever'. Do you understand that? I mean, you leave all reservations behind you. Everything." He nodded again. "Now, we have this file on you." The man from Harrisonville tapped the folder. "It seems you could go right back into the stockade, maybe to Leavenworth, for life.  Or you could do whatever, and I do mean whatever we tell you, instantly, without thinking about it. You learned that in the Marines, right?" The young vet nodded. "No one wants Leavenworth to happen, but I strongly suggest - strongly suggest - you not cross us on anything. D'ya understand? This is a favor we are doing you - we like what you can do, we got you out of the brig with that high-priced lawyer we hired, and the fee was big, so you owe us. Understood?" "Yes, sir," he said, and he knew he was trapped. Had been trapped.   "If anyone asks you where you work, don't tell them. Tell us who they are and we will take care of the problem." "I don't even know who I'm working for. The Bank of Nicholls?" "Look, kid, I know you are new. Don't be slow on the uptake. I will only say this one time. Your job is not to ask questions. Do you want the job?" "Yes, sir." "We will tell you what you need to know. Understand?" "Yes, sir." "All right, then." \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f1\lang9\par
}
 