{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9\par
\b Friday, July 8, 2016 8:15 AM the Ranch\b0\par
"You're going to get in TROU-BLE" \par
Six children, aged 6 to 12,  watched Isaiah climb the side of the greenhouse. He had climbed every other building they knew of. A few big dogs lay around, hoping for attention.  If they thought they were about to be petted, they thumped their tails.  But no such luck now. They were think about crawling into cool places, which had long ago been found.\par
"I know I can do it," he called down, "Watch me."\par
"Your papa is going to whack you properly this time, Isaiah Poller," shouted the oldest, Sarah Jenkins. But she did not run off to tell on him. She stayed and watched. Isaiah had no fear of heights. He was wiry and agile and determined. He dared to do things no one else ever thought of doing. He used to climb the refrigerator. He graduated to cars, then houses. So now he was climbing up the greenhouse wall.  Rather, he was climbing up the aluminum framing  at the corner, somehow finding a grip with his fingers. He had looked at the downspout already and decided it was too weak.  Sarah expected him to climb a mountain when he could find one, and climb the moon if he could.  He was the bravest boy at the Ranch. And good looking and polite.  Too bad he was so young. And somehow he never got in trouble for this sort of thing - mainly because no one would ever think he would do the things he did.\par
Finally  he pulled himself up onto the roof of the greenhouse on his stomach. It was glass, of course, and steep. What with the drought it was gritty enough to not be slick, but not so gritty that -\par
"Isaiah, you come down now, you come down right now!" Anna Jenkins shouted. She was eight and copied her sister in everything, "You are going to get WHACKED!"\par
Anna and Isaiah were the same age.  He wasn't doing this to impress girls, because he was not a show-off.  But why couldn't she cheer him on? Isaiah wriggled onto the glass on his stomach, then slowly got on one knee right on the edge. He looked down at the other kids, some twenty feet below him.  They were all looking up at him with their mouths open. Anna wasn't as pretty as usual staring up with her mouth open.   That was neither here nor there, though, as he got onto one knee and one foot.  With the next move he would no longer be able to use his hands to hang on with.  This was the tricky part and he had practiced on the tight rope. \par
"Whacked!" Matthew Smirnoff said, and smiled. He was almost six, and had escaped a prayer meeting to see this. "Whacked!" He liked the sound of it. "Whacked!" he said it again. "Whacked! Whacked! Whacked!" \par
"That's enough, Matthew," Sarah told him.  She was the oldest here, therefore she was in charge.  Wasn't that how it worked? And hadn't Isaiah gone high enough already? She thought it really was time for him to come down.  He could not possibly be thinking of going any higher.  It was all concrete all around the greenhouse.  At best a fall would be a broken arm.  But Isaiah had never fallen, had he? There was always a first time. And this would be the only time.  \par
The dogs gave up on it and headed for the shade.  It was getting too warm again, they thought.\par
"I'm not done yet," Isaiah protested. And he stood up on the corner of the greenhouse and looked up the edge. There was an aluminum edge-rail that led up to the peak, and from there a ridge rail. From here it looked a lot farther to the ridge than it had from the ground, although he had looked at the plans and memorized the numbers. Faith, fact, feeling.  He had the faith and the facts.  Let the feelings follow.  It only felt like a long way up there. He looked down at the kids looking up at him and stuck his tongue out.   Papa had said the greenhouse was three hundred and twenty feet long,  twice as long as it was wide, with a 6 by 12 rise. Halfway along its length, in  the middle of the roof was a sort of short tower, the louvre, with glass-pane windows and a short glass peak.  He thought he could walk out and touch the louvre, although he had too much sense to try and climb it. His Papa had taken him up in a manlift a week ago to oil a hinge, and had said it was too fragile to stand on. Papa had put him in a safety harness and clipped the harness to the rail, which made Isaiah feel like a little kid until Papa had done the same for himself.  He wasn't a baby.  Isaiah had been thinking about that ever since. This was the tallest building at the Ranch: the others didn't have a simple roof that went up to the middle like this one did, but then they were wider and had peaks and valleys - basically two or three greenhouses side by side.  Still, it was a big greenhouse and he would be able to see pretty far from up there.  Mostly you could see nothing from the Ranch.  Literally, nothing.  To the east you could see the tops of some of the taller buildings in Nicholls, but there was just empty land all around.  And this greenhouse was taller than the barn and on the south side, so the view should be better. To the west you could see into Kansas, where there was more ranchland on prairie. \par
It was hot already and the aluminum was warm. Soon, he knew, it would be hot, maybe too hot to touch. That's why he was doing this early.  He had gotten this far yesterday when no one else was around. No one was working in the greenhouse that he could see.  There was a little wind from the southwest. Just a faint breeze but he had to bear that in mind. He didn't want enough wind that it might push on him.  A little to help stay cool would be better than a calm. So the wind was just right.\par
First step.  The kids below were silent.  Second step.  They watched him as he walked, arms out like a tightrope walker, up to the ridge.  There he stood. Sixty feet to the ground, Papa has said.  Not much, and all on one side.  He'd climbed higher than that in plenty of trees.  But those trees were all to the north, and this greenhouse was to the south, blocking the view. There was a nice amount of grit on the rail and he could easily walk it by putting one foot in front of the other, even if it was steeper than a staircase.\par
"Not a baby," he said to himself.  He could almost jump across to the hanger roof, it was so close. But that was not the plan.  Straight down on the outside was the concrete around the greenhouse. You plan your work and work your plan, Papa liked to say.  He had a plan and he was going to work it. \par
"Nice breeze up here," he called down. "You should come up and try it."  That was stupid, he thought.  A door opened somewhere, and the kids scattered.  But there was a breeze. It might pick up.  He needed to work his plan.  Best he not hang around.   And audience or no audience, he was going to do this. He carefully turned and faced the louver, which now seemed miles away.  It was one hundred sixty feet over to there, he told himself.  He had never walked a tightrope that far.  You could walk that in less than a minute on the ground.   He stepped out onto the ridge.   One foot..two feet...the ridge was a sharp aluminum angle and the roof dropped steeply on both sides. There was enough dust from the drought that it was gritty.  Right after a rain it would be very slick.  It looked a lot higher from up here than it had on the ground. No matter.  He stepped again, his arms out to balance.  It was only sixty feet up.  It seemed a long way down.  A very long way. \par
"Kids?" a woman called below.. "I saw you talking. Come back here." It was sixty feet from the ridge to the ground, his father had told him when they fixed the louver. Sixty feet. Only sixty feet.  It seemed a lot higher. The breeze died again.  But she wasn't looking up.  Why should she?  He kept walking.  Slowly, carefully, his arms out for balance.  This was easy.\par
The six were obedient. They slowly walked to the woman, and stood silently, looking  everywhere but up.  Isaiah wasn't sure who it was, because most of the mothers at the Ranch were now in their weekly MPR groups.  Mothers Praying for Rain.  Another reason he had picked right now to do this.  The kids looked mainly at their dogs, now lying in a row in the shade.  They thumped their tails invitingly. Pet us? Look at us! We can be petted - it's too hot to play ball. Biscuits would be nice, but a petting is always welcome.\par
Good. That bought Isaiah time.  He moved out futher onto the ridge and discovered that it was really a ridge, just a an angular piece of aluminum with practically no width, in some way more of a ridge now that he was out on it.  He'd thought he'd known what a ridge was.  Now he knew it more clearly than he could have ever imagined.  He was more surrounded by hot, hard blue sky than by anything of earth. He'd practiced the other day with a piece of aluminum on the ground, where they were building a new greenhouse, but it was different up here, and he'd not gone so far.  It WAS like tight-rope walking, which he was good at.  But he had never been this high before and he was glad no one was watching.  If he fell he would be sliding down the roof.  Papa had said that the glass was strong glass - it had a temper, or something, that he would explain when Isaiah was older.  It could take hail.  Maybe if he had to he could brake on the cross members. Or just slide over them, bumpta-bump, shoot off the slick roof and that would be it. But there were no intermediate members, just caulk between the panes, and all the support for the glass on the underside.  It would be a fast slide down... That was ok with him, he thought, because that encouraged him to do this right.  And he had a plan.  He put his arms out like on the tightrope even more so and step by step he continued carefully towards the louvre.\par
"Where is Isaiah?" he heard from below.  But he decided answering would be unwise. The other children could answer for him.  He suddenly realized a lot of people could see him up there, but he was not going to turn and look.  And he felt very alone, so unlike the crowded Ranch where it was hard to ever be alone.  Unless you were up a tree or something. Or like here and now. He was up in the sky with the birds and the clouds, that is where he was, surrounded by open air in every direction except for the thin sharp rail under him.\par
"What do you mean by pointing up? What has he done this time?"\par
"He's climbing the greenhouse? I don't see him. And there is no way he could do that. What do you mean?"  There was a conversation but the voices faded until  Isaiah could not hear the conversation anymore; it was just a murmur of sound.\par
Then there were a few minutes of silence. \par
Isaiah was about half way to the louvre when Mrs. Allen had walked out to where she could see the roof.  She gasped and moved out of sight, probably getting someone, probably Isaiah's father.  Isaiah had time, he hoped, to make it to the louvre. What could they do, anyway? Make him slide down? Pick him off the roof with the high man-lift, which right now was done at the west end? Anyway that was where it was late yesterday afternoon. He'd seen it there.  They were wiring lighting or something with it, or maybe installing water lines. \par
He kept going.  There were voices, several voices. Matt's voice. "Isaiah, we are getting your father!" And six-year-old Matthew was still saying "Whacked!" with great satisfaction. There were other voices - best we can do is pray - that boy climbs everything - he'll be alright - if he falls it could be fatal - broken leg would be the best we can hope for - I'm going to go get the doctor - some way to catch him...\par
"That kid. O Lord." That was Mr. Juvwa.  Last week he had caught Isaiah climbing onto his roof.   The group of kids and adults grew in number and stood and  watched in silence.  The last thing they wanted to do was see him fall. Well, most of them.  Isaiah smiled. Mr. Juvwa looked at the world through enormous glasses that made his eyes look twice as big.  He tended to push his shoulders up and his head down in a way that reminded Isaiah of a turtle trying to put its head in its shell.  And his chin was small.  And he was completely bald. "juvwa' meant turtle in some language.  Isaiah decided it was not a coincidence.\par
"Whacked!" Matthew said.  People shushed him.  \par
Some dog whined. So many people and not a good belly scratch among them.\par
Great.  Isaiah decided he needed to ignore them.  But he had to look down.  His left shoelace was untied.  That is what he thought was going on.  Not a good time at all.  Papa had always told him not to look down if he could help it in high places.  Now he could not help it. He carefully squatted to tie it, but discovered that if he brought his arms in, he was going to lose his balance. Moving to a squat was tricky enough.  He tried to pull an arm in to pull on the laces but he needed them for balance.. Maybe if he could just tighten the laces...But the shoe was loose.  \par
It was a lot of glass in both directions, he realized, and then that it was a long fall to the ground. He looked down into the greenhouse with its rows on rows of blueberries and hoses everywhere.  People were working it right below him, but no one was looking up.  Heads and shoulders and backs.  The shoe was loose and might come off.  This was unexpected.  There was a lot of sky all around, and only glass and aluminum underfoot.  It seemed a lot bigger and a lot higher up here than it had on the ground, even than it had earlier.  Pretty cool, he thought.  \par
Arms out, he bent down, trying to grab the laces with his mouth. Nope. Suddenly he lost his balance. Over he went, off the ridge, down the glass, twisting so he didn't land on his back.  He caught the ridge with his right hand, though, and hung there for several minutes against the slick glass, slick with that fine dust that gave it just the slightest grit.  His arm hurt where he had scraped it on the ridge and his fingers were smarting and he thought his hand might go numb in a minute.  He watched his loose shoe go tumbling down the glass and over the edge, just like he might if he didn't do this right.  On the third try he got his left hand up and gripped the ridge.  \par
He wasn't out here to fall, he said.  His arm wasn't bleeding, not yet, anyway, and he wasn't hurt.  Gumption was a word he knew.  He pulled himself up onto and over the ridge, which was sharper when he was grabbing it or lying on it.  It was also warm but not too hot to touch, not yet.  He thought about if he stayed here, he might fry in the sun, it would be so hot. "Can't stay.  Got things to do," he said to himself.  He moved so he was sitting, straddling the rail.  He was aware there were people watching, a lot of people, all on the side he came up on. He waved to them.  He didn't take time to look at their faces. He flexed his hands.  His right hand was tingling a little.  He waited a minute and watched the blood come back into his fingers before he made his next move. And his arm was not going to bleed. It just had little skin-ridges torn in rows.  "Time's a wasting.  Every minute is a precious gift from God. You must make the most of it," he told himself. \par
He put his hands on the glass, one on each side of the rail, and in one motion he pulled both feet onto the rail under him even as both hands slid down the glass. He steadied himself and slowly stood up, arms out.  If he had been any bigger or heavier he could not have done that, he thought, and he would have to have scooted, which would have been painful.  He thought about waving again.  Not a good idea.  The louver was ahead.  Sixty feet to go.\par
The rail was sharp under his shoeless foot.  He could not do this for very long.  Forty feet.\par
His left foot was complaining about stepping on the rail, so he moved how he stood on it and tried to spend more time on the other foot.  That didn't really work.  Thirty feet.\par
His knee, for some reason, was bending whenever he stood on that shoeless foot. Just a little bit.  Must be the pain, he thought. Twenty feet.\par
He was limping, kind of wobbling on the left foot.  He tried hopping. Not a good idea. Fifteen feet.\par
Trying to put his foot on the glass instead of the rail didn't work, because the glass was too slick.  He rested for a minute on his foot with the shoe.  That foot was beginning to complain about the sharp edge also. He'd chosen the tennis shoes he wore when he walked the tightrope, which didn't have much of a bottom.   He took a painful step, then another, then another.  \par
Ten steps and he was there. There was a cupola with a little peak, Vents were on every side, glass panes that let out very hot air from the greenhouse.  It was blowing hot air out.\par
He leaned over the open vents  and touched the bottom of the cupola, already hot in the merciless sun.  There was no way, though, to touch the top in the center or climb up there.  The whole thing was too high and big and he didn't think the glass would support his weight.  And there was what Papa had said.  He always listened to Papa.  And this was high enough.  He wouldn't be gaining a whole lot by getting up there,  even if he could. This was his goal.  He grinned. He'd made it. \par
He tried shifting some weight onto the glass pane, but its movement warned him against putting too much weight on it. He wasn't very heavy, anyway, and he figured out how to hold on without damaging it and taking off some weight. That helped. \par
 So he stood where he was.  He stood on his right foot, his left foot on top of that shoe, and steadied himself with his hands on the glass panes.    Heat was rising off the greenhouse glass, he realized as if for the first time, and the air was wavy. It was hot - hotter than on the ground, even. He could see over the waves.   He decided to look around and he doubted they would let him come back here, not that he wanted to. It wasn't as much fun as he had thought it would be. Once he'd done it he didn't need to do it again.  Greenhouses to the north and west - he could see them through the louvre -  the Hanger to the east, which was not as tall as this, which he would have to turn around to look at.  Not a good idea.  It had been odd to be looking down at a hanger.  He'd been there and done that already.  Simple. North, beyond a row of industrial buildings, the trailers and stone houses of the Ranch.  He saw the barn, and then he turned to the south, saving the best for last, like dessert.  He'd picked this greenhouse because it was the highest and he hoped he would be able to see Snake Woods from here, with a clear line of sight to the south. He was not allowed anywhere near Snake Woods, so he was curious about it.  But there was nothing but dreary burnt-looking grass, all-dried up and brown,  and flat rock, though, as far as the eye could see, with areas of flat rock where nothing grew. And more flat rock.  There were some scattered scrub cedars, now brown and dying and a few other determined trees, but they were few and far between.  A few head of cattle out there, but most of them, he knew, were inside because there was not a whole lot they could eat outside. He could see the tops of some trees in a line far away, which he guessed was Snake Woods. But at the edge of sight was some relief to the drought, as there was a solid line of black cloud some miles away, hurrying towards the Ranch. People had been praying for rain for months.  But this would be no place to be in a thunderstorm. "I'm done here," he said to himself.\par
"Looks like rain is coming!" He yelled to the crowd below, and pointed.  Most of them turned to look and he slid down the north side of the greenhouse, away from them, successfully braked with his feet on the gutter, which groaned and bent, swung himself off the roof and hung from the gutter, looked down, and dropped onto the hay bales that he had known were here.  There was a sharp pain that ran up his left leg from his left, shoeless foot that surprised him.   He had put the bales there, anyway, as preparation, earlier today and had checked them just before climbing.  He rolled to his feet and ran, or tried to.  There was a sharp line of pain all along the bottom of his left foot, so he sort of limped while trying to run. All according to plan, except for the shoe. And the limp.  Success.  \par
"Where are YOU going, partner?" Out of nowhere, or so it seemed to Isaiah, his papa had grabbed him by the belt and was now holding him, face down, off the ground by the back of the belt. Suddenly Isaiah was very tired.  And now, scared.  One of the few things he was afraid of was displeasing Papa.  God, Papa, Mama.  Not always in that order, either. \par
"I thought you would come down this side, away from the people. And I saw where you put the hay.  So I told people to leave it there. More on that later, son. And did you have to whack our nice gutter so hard? You will have to help me repair it.  And, your help is needed fighting the prairie fire - don't start - but first we need to let your Mama know you are all right, and she can change her prayer meeting. More exactly, that prairie fire is a danger to all of us."\par
They lived in a complex of six trailers that had been more or less spliced together they called the Warren. It was not far from the greenhouses: Papa liked to be near the work.\par
Papa stepped over Klondike, still carrying Isaiah by the belt.  Their huge Great Dane was, as usual, lying in the way, sunning himself, spread out over the  porch.  Soon it would be too hot and he would find some shady spot to lie down, or howl to be let in and petted. Most of the dogs at the Ranch were working dogs, but some were pets.  Boomer was Isaiah's own big dog, but he was probably under the trailer, in the shade already. Klondike was good against the Huns: none of them had ever gotten past Klondike. So Papa said. They only had the two.\par
Papa opened the door.  There was a group of women in the living room, taking all the seating and then what they could bring in from the dining room area. "He's alright," Isaiah's Papa shouted, and lifted Isaiah up by the belt, with his head and arms and legs dangling, like a prize fish he caught or something," but we have a prairie fire coming up we have to fight. Keep praying for rain, ladies," as their sudden shouts of "Praise the Lord" and other shouts of praise gave way again to intercession.  They had been praying for rain all spring and now into the summer.  It had not come.  Here, at least, was some token of victory.  The floor was covered with babies, toddlers and their gear, proof again that at the Ranch, anyway, contraception was not practiced nor encouraged.  Happy marriages were encouraged. Isaiah was the oldest of four, at eight years of age, and his mother was expecting. His brother Jeremiah was sitting there.  At six he was not thrilled to be with the babies.  He was looking after his younger siblings Zeke and Daniel.  Mama was hoping for a girl, Isaiah knew.  Jeremiah climbed less than he did, but Zeke had been to the top of the refrigerator more than once, and Daniel was trying.  It would not be long. \par
"Where is his shoe? " Mama asked "And put him down. Honestly, sometimes -"\par
"We will have to find it," Papa replied, before Isaiah could explain how he had lost it or Mama could continue. "You can't keep a Poller down.  No fear of heights in this one! This is my boy." He held his trophy son up again, and smiled.\par
Mama gave him a good look. "And what did you do to your arm? And you will need a bath. You have been rolling in the dirt, it looks like."\par
Mama looked up at her husband.  He was looking past the huddled women into the kitchen, where Daniel had just climbed to the top of the high chair and was standing on the back.  Daniel waved to his Papa, and then the chair went one way as it crashed and Daniel went the other, landing on his feet. Daniel laughed.  Papa said nothing, but his eyes twinkled as Lois, their \i jongedamme\i0 , put the high chair to rights and brought Daniel back to where Jeremiah could watch him.  This was not the first time Daniel had done this.  Then he kissed Mama and Papa and Isaiah left. Mama smiled and got back to praying.\par
"In the Name of the Father and -" they heard before they moved out of range. \par
Papa put Isaiah upright.  He found he could walk, but his left foot felt the hot gravel, so Papa scooped him up on his hip, like he was a little kid.  It wasn't the time to complain, though. And it wasn't too bad.  He was still young enough to like a hug, even if he was almost a teenager.  Papa put him down to get the shovels. He wondered how long the bottom of his foot was going to hurt.  It would probably have a cool line down the middle, maybe forever.   Actually both feet were hurting down the middle of the soles, only the left one was worse.\par
"I knew you were going to climb that, Isaiah.  It's the only thing you hadn't climbed, and you have been eyeing it for days.  I saw you practicing with that aluminum rail. When I saw the hay bales, I knew."     Isaiah said nothing.  Papa sounded almost pleased.  Except he was also trying to sound stern and angry.  \par
Papa shut the storage shed - Isaiah felt quite grown up, with a man-sized shovel, but he also knew the whole roof walk talk was being put off, and not forever - and Papa grabbed him up while carrying both shovels to pick up speed. Papa had been an ironworker, from a family that set steel on a lot of city skylines, then a foreman, then a construction superintendent until the economy collapsed in 2001.  Since then he had sort of taken up a position at the Ranch as general facilities superintendent, although there was no pay and no title. They did what they could do, whether scavanging old trailers or cutting out limestone blocks and making buildings.  He was strong, he was competent and he was well respected. He could rebuild a pump, fix a tractor or a drill, or guide a team of people to get a job done in a way that they wanted to work together afterwards and was better than expected, and done sooner than people had thought possible. He was always upbeat, which the more sombre Eppers thought was frivolous and unserious.  Because of that some people thought he was a bad influence. He even cracked jokes.  Levity. Shame.\par
The fire siren was going off.  Wow. That had only been installed two weeks ago, after thirty years of the Ranch being here.  Some people had resisted it for years.  Do we not depend on God? Why dig broken cisterns that can hold no water?  Presumption.  And the siren was in a high place, like an idol, no? Do we provoke the Lord with this? Isaiah remembered a man somberly wagging his finger in Papa's face, warning him that this was a provocation of God and fire and judgement was coming.  But the Council of Twelve had approved it, and that was that.  Now people were arguing about the praise flags, which seemed out of date.  Some of them were getting faded.  They were always arguing about everything, Isaiah thought. In a calm and measured voice, but there it was. \par
Papa saw Isaiah's shoe lying out in the street. He scooped it up without stopping, even though he was carrying Isaiah and two shovels. He gave the shoe to Isaiah to hold. \par
"Get shovels, we need to start a counterfire," he shouted at some men.  One of them was the man who had wagged his finger at Papa about the sirens.  He and Papa looked at each other for a second, neither saying anything.  Papa rounded the corner of the greenhouse and they could see that the black smoke was now a line of orange flame that was eating its way towards them.  Sometimes it would find a tree.  When it found a scrub cedar there was an explosive burst of flame and sparks went soaring.    Papa went to the edge of the grass, past the area they mowed, and set Isaiah down.  The grass was so dry it broke and made a crunching sound when you stepped on it. Isaiah crunched more grass and some weeds just to make sure. It was so dry you could see the ground through the grass. Cool. He put his shoe back on.  Papa was barking orders at the people who were just standing around with their eyes on the fire.  They nodded, some resentfully, but they hooked up hoses and got in the line. \par
But the weather sure was not cool.  Little burning pieces of charred wood and straw were falling, and sometimes when they landed the grass caught on fire.  The air had a sharp smell and the breeze was blowing the fire towards them. Isaiah coughed when a swirl of smoke swooped down and surrounded him.   Rabbits darted out of the tall grass, then back in when they saw people.  A few birds, agitated, flew ahead of the flames and sometimes back into them in their confusion.  A deer leaped through the flames, then back into them when it saw the people. Then back out, and suddenly  a line of ten or so deer leaped out, through the line of men and disappeared into the Ranch.  \par
There was a patch of rock where nothing grew  not far away that seemed to be a place of refuge, crowded with mice and even a snake or two and a rabbit.  Right now they were all more afraid of the fire than anything else.  Two cows made it there.  The Ranch had a lot of areas where there was no soil, and people were hoping the cattle had found these oases - odd that rock was now oases, and the grass a desert. \par
Isaiah was astonished when he was given matches and told to set fire to the grass instead of watching.  Wow!  Other men - he was doing man's work! - were doing the same.  There was a strip of mowed grass around where they lived, but beyond that it was wild prairie, where the cattle went. It was actually fairly short, thanks to the grazing cattle, but here and there were clumps of taller grass, and then there were the mounds, with little dead trees sticking our of them.  When the fire found them, it was like fireworks.  Much futher south, there was tall grass that was pretty solid on both sides of Snake Woods, or so Isaiah had been told.  The children were absolutely forbidden to go into the tall grass, and the men went unwillingly. No one knew exactly where the limits of where the highly venomous snakes were.  There was a fence at the KEEP OUT zone set up by Missouri DNR years before, but that fence was a guess. The snakes mainly hunted for birds, but they had been found in the tall grass where they hunted mice. And they were fast and aggressive and almost impossible to spot in the tall grass.  The cattle stayed away from Snake Woods and even away from the fence, so that it was, in normal times, thickly grown.  The fenced-off area was far enough to the south and cut off by the horizon so that they could not see Snake Woods, but there was a sudden loud roar and a high flame from where they thought it was that they guessed it was burning.\par
"Maybe them snakes got burned," Isaiah said. Matt, standing nearby, shrugged his shoulders.\par
They watched the line of fire approach.  Maybe it would be stopped by the drainage ditch. But the ditch was empty, except where some cattails had been growing.  People had also thrown branches in there, at times, and grass clippings.  The fire actually was fed by that ditch, and leaped high.  Then it was across, finding clumps of tall dry grass between the rocky places, searching for its meal.  To Isaiah it seemed very alive, and very hungry. \par
Now the Ranchers were at the edge of the mowed area, men and boys apread out in a line, all setting fire to the short grass.  They stepped back from the heat as it burned away from them, leaving black charred grass and slowly - far more slowly than the large flames that were approaching - advanced and ate the grass.\par
The short grass was burning, and they put out the edge of the fire near them with their shovels.  The firebreak was spreading.  Isaiah's papa was giving orders, but people were already wetting down the roofs that needed it - some were stone - and the grass in the residential area.  And trailer roofs. \par
"To thee, O Lord, I cry," someone was praying."For fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness, and the flame has burned up all the trees of the field. Even the beasts of the field pant for Thee; for the water brooks are dried up, and fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness. Joel 1. Verse 20, I think."\par
There were some amens. \par
"What about the prayer garden?" someone asked. \par
"What about it?" someone else replied.  There were murmurs.\par
Years ago there had been the Tipharah: People of Prayer, all of whom were long gone from the Ranch.  They had come, they had prayed and not done much else, except for insisting that the Prayer Garden be built as a place of prayer.  The Lord led them to have it built, they said.  Not that they had done much of the building, but that was not their ministry. No, they prayed.  And somehow God had provided material and labor. A lot of time and material and money had gone into the Prayer Garden, and it wasn't six months later they had all left, led, they said, by the Lord to go elsewhere.  \par
Isaiah had once found a sign belonging to them in the Hanger - it was square, white, taller than he was: just the sign, no posts, but then it had two holes near the top like it used to be hung up somewhere.  It had two circles.  In the center were five Hebrew letters in black, and underneath that, in smaller letters, the word "TIPHARAH" and under that, "People of Praise" and  under that, "Adorn the beautiful Name of the Lord with Praise".  Between the two circles were written four phrases: "For His People", "For His Name", "For His Praise", and "For His Glory".  Across the bottom was the prayer "O Lord Give Us Hearts to Hear You".  They had also gotten people to make and display praise flags.  Papa said Hair Burr was the only place that still had them, and not as many as there used to be.\par
The garden was kept up for some years, with beautiful plantings, the willow tree, some benches and a gazebo, with a fine stone wall keeping the prairie out and an arched gateway with a nice wooden door allowing people in. The stone walls weren't very tall - Isaiah could see over them, and the garden was not very interesting. There had been discussion as to do with it because it needed a lot of care and weeding.  Childcare was now absorbing the time of most of the women who had been taking care of it, and age was absorbing the time of the older people who had,  and no one was really interested in it any more.  So once a week the path out to it got  and that was about it.  It was a shame, really.  It could be a place of solitude and quiet contemplation, a place away from the densely populated Ranch and the never-ceasing conversations and prayer.   Most people seemed to have a thing against praying silently, and some against praying softly, so the Garden had been a refuge that way.  There was a little pond where there had been goldfish once and water dripping into the pond from a little waterfall powered by a hidden pump, but now the pond was scummy, or would be because they had cut off the water supply and it was dry, a basin of sticks and leaves due to lack of care. And the pump had broken down, and somehow had never been fixed.\par
 The only ones who seemed to be using it were a few teenagers who had been caught "naked and not ashamed" in the garden, ashamed when caught. Something had to be done, but no one was sure what. It had been like that for as long as Isaiah could remember.  Papa talked about it sometimes.  The only thing that had been done was that there was now a heavy padlock on the door. It had been argued about for a long time, but there was no agreement and they had found other things to argue about. In time they would argue about it again.\par
  It was about a quarter mile away from where the grass was cut short.\par
As they watched the flames drew closer, and they realized they could not even reach it in time.  The willow went up with a large WHUMP as the flames leaped over the wall and took the willow tree. Burning branches flew up in the heat.  Their firebreak was spreading, and people spread out, water buckets in hand, watching for falling embers.  Isaiah watched a burning branch fall as it weakened and fell, trailing flame and whumping into the smoking earth.\par
"Number three pump's out again," someone told Papa. "What I would do for cell phones," Papa replied. "On my way." With a glance at the firebreak and the men posted, watching it spread, he headed west with Isaiah. Isaiah found his father's hand was on his shoulder, firmly. Papa also carried the shovels.\par
"Did anyone tell you NOT to climb the greenhouse?"\par
"No, sir."\par
"I didn't think so. From now on, you will ask BEFORE you climb up something new. Is that understood?"\par
"Yes, sir."\par
"And I mean, you check with me before you climb up anything except the swingset and your tightrope. That is ok."\par
"Yes, sir."\par
"You scared a lot of people today.  I will consider your punishment when I have a minute. But I am glad you are still alive.  If I gave you punishment right now it might be too light or too hard. Consider that."\par
"Yes, Papa."  \par
"God took care of you. Best you not tempt Him."\par
"Yes, sir."\par
"Papa?"\par
"I did not see Him taking care of me. How do you know He did?" \par
"I trust Him, Isaiah. I don't always see Him working - it is rare to see Him working directly. Do you see the electricity working when the stove heats up?"\par
"No."\par
"And did you see it when we put the Warren together?"  \par
"That happened before I was born."\par
"Right.  We see very little of the world. Some things we cannot see, some things are out of sight, whether from distance or before or after we are on earth, and some things are simply too big to see. Like God.  Our eyes are so weak we cannot see God. And He is everywhere."\par
"I wish I had eyes strong enough that I could see God everywhere."\par
"Me, too, Isaiah. Me, too.  Someday.  Now we walk how, Isaiah?"\par
Isaiah was wondering if he was talking about his foot, but that was not it. "By faith, Papa."\par
"You got it, kid."\par
Papa picked him up because Isaiah was having trouble keeping up.  Most people had trouble keeping up with Papa when he got moving.  They got to the end of the long row of greenhouses, passed the one they were now building, and came to a small building. The old quarry that they had filled with water and now raised fish in protected this end of the Ranch.  They had never thought of it as a firebreak, but there it was. And a source of water in case of need, like right now.  It was large enough that you could go boating.  Isaiah had learned to swim there and they had built a beach that even had sand, where you could build sandcastles.  Not now, it was too hot. But there was a building Isaiah had never noticed before. "Pumphouse 3" It said on the sign, and they entered.  The floor was a grating and there was a ladder down into the darkness. It was humid and there was an oily smell, but it was silent. \par
"Ten foot of water in the well," Mr. Olson said.  Mr. Olson tended the pumps.  He had told Isaiah he was an electician, which still puzzled Isaiah.  Water and electricity don't mix. Anyone knows that! \par
"Follow me," Papa told Isaiah, "but stay out of the water."  They climbed down.  Isaiah stopped above the water, but with a splash Papa entered the water without stopping.  The foot of the ladder was in the water.  The pump was silent. "If I need a tool you fetch it, ok?"\par
Isaiah nodded. He was pleased that he had important work to do here. He hung on to the ladder.  Mr. Olson was looking down at them. He had a toolbox at the ready.  Mr. Olson was short and heavier than Papa.  He was bald,with his hair sticking straight out where he had it, and he had thick glasses and a big nose and a big moustache that wiggled when he talked.  If Isaiah wasn't so mature he would have giggled, because he was so funny looking.  Right now he looked down, looking very worried .  He worked for Papa.  He also sang in the choir and when he was singing, Isaiah had to avoid looking at him, because the moustache wiggled worse when he sang so much that Isaiah wanted to laugh.  And you were not supposed to laugh in God's house.\par
"Huh," Papa said, looking around.  He felt around underwater with his hands for a minute, then went in all the way, over his head.  The cables that went into the water moved.  It was so dark that Isaiah could not see him.  Isaiah waited, holding his breath, like Papa must be holding his.  Isaiah could not hold his breath any more and exhaled.  What seemed to Isaiah to be a very long time passed, until Papa's head came out of the water and then the rest of him.  They climbed back up, Papa helping Isaiah more than Isaiah would have liked.  Papa shook water off his hand.  He pointed to a metal box.  Mr Olson  opened it and Papa looked inside.  He said something, and Mr. Olson flipped a switch, flipped it again, and then pulled on a big lever, then flipped a switch again. With a shake and an umph the pump down below growled to life as it sucked pond water up to use in the fire fight.  Papa threw a wet, rusty, empty can into the metal recycling bin. "Someone was careless," he said.\par
"Jan Brunn died that way, Mr. Poller. Got his hand caught down there and drowned." Mr Olson shut the box. Circuit breaker box, Isaiah now recalled.  \par
"I know. I fished him out, remember?" And Papa patted Mr. Olson on the back, shaking water on him, chuckled, and they moved out. "You can't listen to fear," he said, and then, "Jan Brunn was a good man.  It was a shame to lose him, but that was three years ago now. And I think of that every time I clear an impeller."  Isaiah nodded.  Isaiah Brunn was his own age and they played together.  He missed his Papa.    \par
Outside there was a steady rain of ash, much of it with a glowing edge.  They wandered around with their shovels putting it out.  Every spigot had a hose attached and a vigilant guard attached to the hose, ready to spray any roof. The sky was black and it was hard to see. Ash was falling.  It felt like the end of the world, being destroyed by fire, with everyone wandering around looking up and the ash coming down.\par
There was a new house being built on the far north side of the Ranch.  Was anyone watching it? Everything else seemed to be covered. Papa stared away southeast, to where the sewage treatment plant was, trying to see through the smoke and haze and falling ash. Isaiah then knew he was concerned about it.  Probably Isaiah would not be allowed to go down there now.  If anyone had been there...\par
"It's the end of the world! Repent!" it was Rooster.  Rooster had been expecting the end of the world for forty years and was waiting, here, to meet Jesus. Years ago there had been many others who had come here to await the end of the world.  Some of them had died and were buried here, and so they would meet the good Lord here when the time came. Others had moved on.  Rooster was about the only one who still went out every morning to await the returning King in the chapel.  "The world will end in fire and the heavens will be destroyed by burning, and the elements will melt with intense heat! Look for the new heavens and the new earth! Are your hearts ready? It is the end of the world, I tell you, it is the end of the world! Strike down your idols! Bring down the idolatries in high places!" By this he meant the fire siren, which he had denounced as a provocation of the Good Lord.\par
He grabbed Papa's arm even in his hurry. Papa stopped, even though he had no time for this. Papa pointed south, to where the fire was burning out, low and exhaused from the lack of fuel. The land was black and smoking as far as they could see, but it was still there. A cow was standing on a rocky patch a mile away, surrounded by a black and smoldering waste. She mooed as if to say, "Now what?"  Ash was still rising into the air and drifting their way, but there was a lot less of it than there had been.   \par
"It' a prairie fire, Rooster, you donkey. It is already passing and almost over." He shook free from Rooster and hurried north, with a brief glance to the southeast.\par
"It's not the end of the world? A prairie fire?" He hurried behing Papa and Isaiah, but could not keep up.\par
"This is the end of the world? God did a lousy job destroying the world, if you ask me," shouted Rooster. "I might as well go back to selling furniture. I am indeed disappointed."\par
"It's still coming," someone reassured him.\par
At this Rooster picked up and got back into stride. "The end of the world is coming!" he shouted. "This is but a prairie fire but the end is coming. This is a foretaste. Prepare your hearts! Prepare your souls, ye people of the wilderness!"  He warned the world of its coming demise with a renewed joy and purpose.  "God has spared us this time! We have time to remove the idols in high places!" And he pointed at the fire siren.  \par
  \par
There had not been time to get the cattle that had been out in the pastures in.  Had they survived? Sometimes cattle were smart enough to escape.\par
A little later the ground was cool enough to walk on.  \par
"I'll go south and look for cattle," volunteered Isaiah. Papa's mind was elsewhere, and he said ok, but he should steer clear of Snake Woods.  So Isaiah and Jeremiah went south. Other men and boys went in other directions, looking for cattle.  Boomer went with the two brothers.\par
"What'dya find, boy?" asked Isaiah.  Boomer barked at something in the burned grass. It was the body of a blackened rabbit, which Boomer picked up in his mouth and proudly carried.\par
One of their cows was down here, alive, as she had gone to a rocky area. \par
"There's one," said Isaiah.  They kept walking.  They walked a long way, Isaiah thought, and he turned.  The Ranch was out of sight.  There were more islands of rock, each with a cow or two on them.  They seemed unwilling to tread on the burnt ground.  They were funny looking.  Isaiah could go back and say there were plenty of cattle. \par
Now, here was the fence around Snake Woods. Or what had been the fence, except that it had never been a fence.  There were posts with signs on them every so far apart, but whatever the signs said had been burned off.  As they walked, suddenly there were more tree stumps, grey and burned, some with charcoal on them still, crackling and glowing and dropping grey ash.  There was  the sound of tree branches crashing here and there, and there was a large whoosh when somewhere, Isaiah guessed, a whole burnt tree had gone over.  \par
They went forward, and suddenly Isaiah put out his arm to stop Jeremiah from going forward.  There was  a sudden ten-foot drop.  They could look straight and see trees still glowing with their charcoal.  Branches were falling, and they would  burst into flame as they fell. They stood there several minutes and watched a huge tree topple.  Some of the trees must  be sixty feet or more high, taller even than the greenhouse, Isaiah thought, looking up and seeing branches slowly falling, crashing into other branches, spinning and shooting sparks and flaming twigs. Ahead of them the valley must have been several hundred feet wide, until you came to another cliff on the other side.  To the east it dropped down and the cliffs rose.  Which meant, Isaiah thought, that if you wanted to go down there and look around, it was easiest if you went to your right.  He gave no thought as to why he would want to do that, he just did.\par
 They picked their way through the still burning woods,watching for falling branches and trees and hot spots on the ground.  Many of the trees in the ravine stood much higher than the surrounding ground and their branches stuck.  They had to go around some branches.\par
Isaiah pointed to a burned something in a branch that they went around.\par
"What's that?" Jeremiah wanted to know.\par
"A burned-up snake.  I figure they are all dead."\par
Jeremiah was silent.  He did not want to show fear.  But he had been warned about Snake Woods all his life, and now here they were.  Isaiah was never afraid of anything. Jeremiah did things, but he was scared when he did them.  But Isaiah just did things.  Jeremiah willed himself to keep walking through the still-burning woods.  Someone needed to be with Isaiah in case he got in trouble - not that he ever did.\par
"They're not dangerous. They're dead," Isaiah explained.\par
"Oh," said Jeremiah.  That still didn't make it all ok.   They still had to watch for falling branches and trees.\par
They followed the edge of the ravine, which narrowed, as much as they could what with fallen branches, some of which were still burning, and fallen trees, that they went around.  Isaiah had been taught to never step somewhere that you could not trust, and he considered himself cautious.  Here was where the ravine started.  Boomer still had his rabbit.  Crackling sounds came from all directions, all around them and above them and sometimes hidden under the layer of ash underneath their feet.  They came to a drop of about five feet with a charred tree trunk leaning up against the drop invitingly.  Isaiah kicked the tree. It didn't move.  He looked at it for a minute and finally leaped on it and walked down it into the ravine, arms out, easily as if he had been on a sidewalk.  Jeremiah stood and watched him, uneasy about this.  He did not dare follow him.   The log turned as Isaiah walked down it.  the underside still had coals and he jumped only a couple of feet onto the ashy, still-smoldering ground.  Boomer barked, but the rabbit muffled it.  He was going to stay with Jeremiah, which was fine with Isaiah. And Jeremiah would stay with Boomer.\par
"Watch out for dinosaurs!"  Jeremiah was always thinking about dinosaurs. He had books with long dinosaur names that Oma helped him pronounce.  Right now his hand was on Boomer's head for reassurance.\par
"They died out a long time ago," Isaiah called back up to his brother.  The fire was out on the ground but it had not cooled off.  This place was weird.  There was no sound, no sound at all. Just ash and dead trees.  The trees were making little clicking noises from their fires, he realized as he listened for a minute.  Another branch fell some distance away.  It did look like something from another planet or something. Ash underfoot, and if you got too close to a tree it started getting really hot.  \par
A tree suddenly fell somewhere ahead.  Isaiah was curious, so he headed that way.  Smaller branches were still falling, some of which still had the orange and white of burning on them. When they fell, they burst into flames.  Isaiah thought this was still cool.  He kept his eyes open so he wouldn't get hit. He kept turning and looking as he walked. \par
Isaiah wandered around, looking at the rocks and burned trees.  He picked up the charred remains of a snake and turned and waved it to Jeremiah, then threw it as far as he could, just because he could.   Boomer barked at him, unable to come down where his master was.  Boomer was worried.\par
"Nothing to worry about! But, hey, if I find a live snake, I will bring it home!"\par
Jeremiah gasped.  That was, that was, that was.  Well, that was Isaiah.\par
Isaiah wandered eastward.  He found a few more cooked snakes and some charred mice. A charred bird.  He stayed on rocky areas because it seemed to be hotter elsewhere, like there was still a fire under what used to be the floor of the woods.\par
Suddenly he came to a hole.  Further east the ground started dropping more quickly, and the cliffs - because that was what they were, here - were about thirty feet high - and there was a spring not too far off, down where the ground got flatter. Past that the cliff walls started dropping.  The tree stumps thinned out and it looked like everywhere else beyond that.  There was a little creek that went off east out of sight, or would be, except it was so dry.\par
 He looked back at the hole - maybe six feet across  that appeared so suddenly that it was dangerous.  There was a tree growing out of it, the top of which had been burned off.  It was dark down there.  There was dirt for a foot or two that sloped down into the hole, and then nothing but darkness. \par
Isaiah took a rock and dropped it in the hole.  He listened to see how long it would take before it hit bottom.  Instead there was a sudden loud rattle, as if there were many, many snakes down there.\par
"Whatcha doin?" Jeremiah yelled.  He and Boomer had followed Isaiah, only they had stayed on the top of the cliff.  Jeremiah didn't like how high it was, either, and stayed back from the edge.\par
"I'm gonna get me a rattler!" Isaiah yelled back, as he jumped to  the tree. He had said it, and usually he did what he said he was going to do. He wrapped himself around the tree and shimmied his way down into the darkness. There was handholds. Easy as pie.\par
"Are you CRAZY?"\par
Isaiah did not reply.  Something was wrong with this tree...\par
"You're CRAZY!" Jeremiah was frightened.  He also knew Isaiah, who was capable of doing anything.  Hadn't he snuck out to a dark place on the railroad and laid down between the tracks, not once but twice? Didn't he climb EVERYTHING?  Isaiah had no sense of fear.  Isaiah had no sense.\par
But now it turned out that the tree wasn't a tree - it was a trunk, yes, but one that had fallen into the hole. It shifted and rolled and fell several feet. Isaiah held on as it took him down, down into the darkness.  The sound of the rattlesnakes picked up as Jeremiah screamed.\par
"Isaiah! O my God!" Jeremiah burst into tears. He knew Isaiah was a goner. Boomer howled. \par
"Quit yer blubbering. You're blubbering like a girl," came out of the hole. "I'm ok. There's a -"\par
With a sort of scraping sound more of the tree went into the hole. There was a series of thumps and scrapes and the entire tree went into the hole. There was the sound of angry rattlesnakes - many angry rattlesnakes.\par
"Aaaaah!" Jeremiah screamed. "Aaaaah!"\par
Out of the hole came a voice. "Wimp."\par
"Am not."\par
"Are too."\par
Jeremiah stood back from the edge of the cliff. His heart was racing. He wanted to run home. He wanted Isaiah safe.  He had to stay. He had to go. This was awful.  He had never been so scared in his whole life.\par
"Listen, Jeremiah - I'm not very far down. Nothing to worry about, ok?  The tree went down further - way down.  I can see now -there is light. It's not so bad once you get used to it. There is this flat place here I am standing on. There are no snakes here - I think they are all way down below, staying cool. I think I can climb out. Nothing to worry about. Ok?"\par
Jeremiah wasn't so sure. "Ya want me to go get help?"\par
"Naaah. I'll get out in a minute. But there's something I want to look at." \par
Two minutes later Isaiah's hands appeared at the top of the hole. The edge of the rock crumbled and fell. More did. His hands appeared again. More rock and dirt fell. He pulled his head, then the rest of him out. He pulled himself out and lay flat as more little pieces of rock and dirt fell into the hole. He scrambled around on his stomach and looked back down into the hole.  He was very dirty, but alive.  Wait til Mama and Papa got ahold of him, thought Jeremiah.\par
"Man, that's deep!  He took a big old coin out of his pocket and dropped it, just to see how deep. "Look at all those snakes! Wow!"  Another rock fell off the edge of the hole  and fell in.  The edge seemed to be crumbling.  "And we better be looking for cattle!"\par
A few more rocks fell in as he moved off.   There was a cracking sound like ice breaking behind him.  \par
It was like the ground was brittle.  In places Isaiah's foot  almost punched through, like he was walking on thin, crackling  ice, and he went flat or grabbed onto one of the charred tree trunks.  There did not seem to be any ground underneath the rocky surface.  He worked his way to the cliff where Jeremiah was standing.  Behind him a large section of rock fell with a loud noise, rock he had only left a few seconds before. Only stumps remained, charred and sticking up.  Some of the trunks lying on the ground were still burning, red and gray on the undersides. Some fell into the hole, flame rising as they fell. The cliff was mostly solid, although there were places where the rock came off when you grabbed it. Isaiah found hand holds and carefully climbed it.  He got to the top and sat on the edge of the cliff and looked back down.\par
  Isaiah was unshaken, like this was normal. More rocks and trees were falling into the hole, but a little more slowly. \par
"See any cattle?"\par
"Maybe we should move away from the edge of the cliff?"\par
"I suppose you're right, Jeremiah." and he did. \par
Jeremiah's eyes were huge but, as usual, nothing ever seemed to bother Isaiah. They walked around the ravine.\par
 They found some dead mice and a raccoon or two, scorched and dead.  A few birds.  Norhing else of interest.  Boomer traded his rabbit for a raccoon, with a look like 'wait til I show the dogs back home'.\par
"Look at this old coin I found. There are a lot more like it down there, I think, but it was dark. I stepped on this one, so I picked it up."  It had a picture of a lady holding a flag and a shield on one side, and a picture of an eagle on the other. They had never seen anything like it. "1864" it said on the side with the lady. On the other side it said "United States of America" and "One Dol." on the other.\par
"One doll?"\par
"No, stupid. One DOLLAR. I got me a DOLLAR. There was a whole pile of them. I threw some down at the snakes. Actually I have a few more. Here, have this one."\par
Jeremiah looked at it. He stuck it in his pocket.\par
"Sorry I called you stupid."\par
"'s a' right.  I was worried about you."  And Jeremiah burst into tears, to his shame.\par
"Nothing to be worried about, my brother. God is in control."\par
"Why do you do these things?"\par
"I want to be brave, like Papa. And like Jesus.  He is not a wimp. Sometimes, it's weird, but it's like He wants me to do it.  Like finding the coins.  A strange feeling, like I was supposed to do that."\par
"That's for sure. Strange."\par
And so they continued looking for cattle.\par
"Let me tell Papa and Mama how I found these, ok? I think it will be better that way."\par
"Ok, Isaiah." Jeremiah trusted his brother. \par
Boomer was very proud to bring his dead bird back. He had lost his rabbit, but gained a bird. Something for a dog to be proud of. \par
\par
\par
\par
}
 