{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Aaron poked his head in.\par
"Ready?"\par
"Yep." Deem was just finishing the peanut butter burger.\par
"Elder Bread," Aaron said, and nodded.\par
"Deacon Muis," Nathan replied.  They shook hands. "It has been a while."\par
"Yes it has.  Well, I need to get Deem to the Pfingsters.  He needs some time to work on his sermon, and I think things will be pretty busy until Sunday. But that is the life of a pastor." He smiled. \par
"Sermon?" Deem had not realized that he would be preaching Sunday.  He had not brought much in the way past what he used for personal devotions.  He had thought - he wasn't sure what he thought - he thought the interview today was it, like they had a whole series of people to interview, and after that he needed to get out of town.  And that was not exactly a good interview. But someone told him he would be preaching Sunday, now that Aaron mentioned it.  It was not his best subject, not by far.  Not close. Not in the ballpark.  But he could not think, either, of anything that he actually did do well. The high point in the chapel was quickly leaving.\par
"Yes. You are at Pfingsters' through Sunday night.  Elder Julius Pfingster wants to take a good look at you.  I will tell you: of the elders, he is the most opposed to you coming. But don't expect that he will go easy on you.  He spent some time being a DI and then training drill instructors for the Marine Corps at Parris Island.  A lot of that is still there, and you will see that, without a doubt.  Probably he wants to know what you are made of.  And I will be elsewhere - at this point I am your transportation, when you need it, except that I also need to be over in Clinton part of tomorrow and Friday.  Elder Pfingster believes in facing issues head on and getting them over with."\par
"True,"  Nathan said,"There is no subtlety about him. Hair of silver, voice of brass, hide of iron, heart of gold. All metal, full metal: that is our Elder Pfingster.  You'll be fine.  No better friend."    \par
Deem's face expressed his reaction.\par
"No worse enemy, either." Aaron smiled reassuringly. "Don't worry.  People will take care of you."\par
There were two meanings to that, and the thought crossed Deem's mind that he wondered if Aaron was warning him or something.  Maybe this related to his funeral. "Washed Out" would be on his tombstone. How, again, had he felt in the chapel? Oh, for a quiet time of prayer before God...\par
"There's no hotel in Nicholls. Nor a bed and breakfast," Aaron explained, "but people can be very hospitable.  You may not think so," he said, turning to Deem as he drove, "but they can be.  Elder Pfingster calls it as he sees it. Bluntly and directly.  But his judgement is good as to when to call it.  I have some business to attend to, so I won't be seeing you until tomorrow."\par
 Deem was silent. He imagined there had been some pretty fierce discussions between Pastor Hartmann and Elder Pfingster.   It seemed like only a minute later that he pulled into the driveway. Deem noted that it was gravel, but so tightly packed and meticulously taken care of that it looked more like concrete. There were no human bones scattered around, those of previous pastoral candidates come to dinner and eaten alive by this lion.   The white siding on the large frame house looked newly painted, with big old trees on a weedless lawn.  He could identify the oak and maybe the one with the heart-shaped leaves was a cottonwood, maybe.   The US and the USMC flags flew in front of the house, as with many houses in Nicholls.  One of the pickup trucks he had seen at the church was parked further up the driveway.  Ahead of it was a small single car garage with its doors shut.  It, too, had a perfect paint job. Everything trim, everything sharp, meticulously cared for.\par
Elder Julius Pfingster stood on the gravel path to the front door, frowning and disapproving, his wife, standing beside him, smiling nervously. There was no slouch to Elder Pfingster. Deem got the feeling he had come straight off the parade ground after inspecting some despicable excuses for recruits. that he was sick of reviewing, to the point of loathing,  and Deem was one sorry excuse of a maggot. Earlier he had said nothing to Deem.  He was ramrod straight, with a perpetual frown and a crew cut and the abs of a twenty-two year old. He was probably pushing eighty.   His clothes looked pressed and his shoes were shined to a mirror perfection.  Deem wondered if lightning came out of his eyes when he was angry and incinerated the object of his anger.    His wife seemed more friendly, as anyone would, but softly stayed in the background. Mercy to his justice.  Again, Deem thought, the man  was ramrod straight.  What was a ramrod? It was straight, whatever it was, like the standard of straightness. The essence of straightness. Something to do with a civil war cannon.  That was it. You rammed the powder and the ball into the barrel with the ramrod.  Could he even bend over? Sit? Perhaps he took his spine out and impaled his victims on it.\par
"Elder Pfingster," said Aaron.\par
"Deacon Muis," he replied. \par
After a silence Aaron said, "Elder Pfingster, this is Deem Futz."\par
"Yes, we met.  How do you do, Mr. Futz?"\par
'Fine, thanks. And you?"    This was ignored. \par
"Mrs. Pfingster, Deem. Deem, Mrs. Pfingster."\par
She smiled.\par
"Call me Marigold."\par
"Pleased to meet you." Deem returned the smile. She made up for her husband.\par
  They shook hands. After that, everyone shook hands.  Deem could not help feeling like Elder Pfingster would go and wash his hand after shaking Deem's, just to get the slime off. How was he? It was glaring to Deem that his polite question had been ignored. The first sign of doom?\par
 "Well, we will make the best of it. Come on in, young man." Deem got his one suitcase and briefcase in from the car  - there was no internet in Nicholls, so he had left his laptop in Kansas City, along with a few other things that were the total of his possessions at the moment.   Aaron and Mrs. Pfingster - Marigold, she had said to call her- were talking outside.  Elder Pfingster  raced up the steps and into the house, with Deem following more slowly.  Elder Pfingster probably had childen older than Deem was. Somehow he was still ramrod straight when he moved, Deem noted. Despite the fact that the windows were open, it was somewhat stuffy and hot inside inside the house.  There was the smell of food cooking, from somewhere, but Deem concentrated on following Elder Pfingster as he sprang up the stairs and waited at the top.  Deem labored up four steps before Elder Pfingster came back down, said, "let me take those", and, grabbing both, sprinted up the stairs with them.  Deem was sweating.  The upstairs was hotter than downstairs.  No sign of sweat on his host could be seen.\par
"I always say exercise makes a man," said Elder Pfingster. "I always run up the stairs. I see you were - well, you were carrying luggage  You're not used to these stairs."   Deem   decided to let it slide.  Aaron had warned him.  But maybe he was too sensitive. Again, he got it to slide.  It was just on the edge of being impolite, somehow, or it could be taken as friendly, or as unbelievably rude.  Deem simply didn't know, but there was a pattern forming.\par
"These are your quarters." He showed Deem a room with two single beds, one of which was  tightly made with one pillow and a single blanket on a single mattress. There was a dresser big enough for two people, and a large closet.  There were photographs on the walls and an air conditioning unit, now silent, in the window. Deem figured he would have more time later to take in the room. "Two of my sons had that room.  My -" he broke off and changed the subject. "Marigold set up your rack, out of kindness. Throw your trash on it. If you need the head, you will find it down the hall.  Dinner is waiting.  Take your time but we don't have all day." \par
This was somewhat cryptic to Deem, but he put his belongings carefully on the bed that had not been made. \par
"No, on YOUR rack. Oh, never mind." By then Deem had grabbed it all and put it on the made bed.  What was that about? He turned.  Elder Pfingster was gone, downstairs by then. Yes, the bathroom was calling. As he stepped out in the hall, everything looked like it had all just been painted, but there was no smell of new paint. The carpet strip marched down the exact and precide middle of the hall. The house was bigger than he had thought, with more bedrooms than he had expected.  Obviously set up for a large family.  More pictures, but he was now in a hurry.  And there were the front stairs he had come up, and a somewhat compact spiral staircase at the back of the long hall. All the trim, all the walls, everything was meticulously maintained, without a nick or crack or speck of dust anywhere.\par
  He made his way to the bathroom after discovering the linen closet, narrow stairs that led upwards, and a cleaning closet. behind the first doors he tried.  So the fourth door was it.    The water in the toilet was actually brownish, even after he flushed it.  He tried the tap, and was surprised that it was clear and clean.  For a moment he had imagined a shower with the normal city water.   No towel. He guessed he should have grabbed one from the linen closet, unless there was one in his "quarters" that he had been "issued".  He was trying out whatever military terms he could remember. Maybe it would help.  He imagined getting confronted for dripping water between the bathroom and his room, so he wiped his hands on his shirt, under his jacket,  and headed  back to his room, taking the jacket off on the way and hanging it up in the closet, where a few mournful hangers were keeping themselves company.\par
On hooks behind the door hung two towels, a bath towel and hand towel. A washcloth on the dresser held a new bar of soap in a soap dish, a bag of peppermint candy,  and a card from Marigold. "Dear Mr. Futz, Welcome to our home.  I think you will make a fine pastor.  God be with you. M."  He smiled at the warm touch and stood the card on end so he could see it open. The cover held a Norman Rockwell type picture of friends greeting each other.\par
Peppermint candy.  Aaron, somehow, had found out that he loved peppermints, and had told her.  Wow.  He stood there for a minute, reading,  looking at the card.\par
Then, downstairs.\par
There was a smell, now, of mustard potato salad, what people called Amish potato salad, an Epper summer tradition.  And ham. Aaron had somehow found out those were favorites of his. The dining room was on his right as he came down the stairs, a light, airy room that Deem realized was not air conditioned, despite the heat.  Opposite was a sitting room with a couch and two high-backed chairs. There were pictures of Marines and maps everywhere.  There was a sense of a lack of ornamentation, a sense of spareness in everything: everything to purpose and purpose to everything, and out with anything that did not serve that purpose.  "A high and holy calling," Deem muttered to himself,"or a right Spartan barracks. Is the whole town like this?"\par
In the dining room chairs not in use in the dining room were lined up against the chair rail, and the table had been pushed against the wall to increase space.  It could seat a lot more than the three dining, maybe fifteen people or so when pushed out.\par
Elder Pfingster and Marigold were standing there, waiting by the set table.\par
"What happened to you?" demanded Elder Pfingster, directing his gaze at Deem's clothing.  His clothes still had blotches where he had tried to dry his hands."You get in a fight with the toilet?"\par
"Oh, dear husband...," said Marigold.\par
"No, I forgot my towel."\par
"You forgot your towel.  I see."  Stupider things, conceivably, had happened since the world began, but it was doubtful. \par
"Please sit here," Marigold directed him as they sat down, "Dear..." she said to her husband.  There was a note of entreaty there that was more than asking him to say grace, which would have been inappropriate.  Among the Eppers, as head of the household and its spiritual leader he would not need prompting from his wife to say grace.   He looked at both of them, and said, "Allow me to say grace."    Deem was wondering how that would go.\par
"Almighty Father, make us grateful for the food we are about to receive, and bless the hands that prepared it."  Marigold and Deem said,"Amen."\par
"I believe in laying the cards on the table," said Elder Pfingster, as he served out the ham, "the elders deadlocked, voting 3-3 about whether "that candidate" would be allowed to preach Sunday or they would just have readings.  Since it was deadlocked, they are giving you the benefit of the doubt. I, Julius Pfingster, voted against. I wanted to make that clear at the outset of the meal. Potato salad?"\par
"Dear, are you being rude to a guest? Young man, is my husband being rude to you?" Marigold was concerned.\par
Elder Pfingster paused.  He looked at his wife with a look that Deem could not make out. Could it possibly be that he was embarrassed or something? \par
"Why, dear,  Deem Futz is our house guest, and a brother in Christ. We must make him feel at home."\par
"Yes, well, there is that," Elder Pfingster admitted.\par
"I would like to meet Mrs. Futz," Marigold began, by way of making conversation.\par
"So would I," replied Deem,"I am looking for a young lady to make into Mrs. Futz."\par
"You're single? Oh, my goodness.  I just don't know what to say."\par
"It's all right.  People tend to think Epper pastors MUST be married.  The subject comes up a lot."\par
"I am sure it does," Elder Pfingster said,"And we will be discussing that very point, at length, later.  Catholic clergy are celibate.  Not ours. Unless someone is extraordinarily gifted. I have seen no sign of that here."\par
Time to get the conversation on another subject. "You have a large and beautiful house," Deem began.\par
"No end of upkeep," growled Elder Pfingster.  Elder Pfingster suddenly turned and looked at his wife. Deem wondered if she had kicked his leg.   \par
 "Why thank you," Marigold said sweetly. \par
"I assume you have children?"\par
"Yes. Yes we do," admitted Elder Pfingster.  \par
Marigold smiled. "We have nine. All grown. Some are married and have children."\par
"Four are on active duty, serving their country."\par
"I assume in the Marines?"\par
"Of course.  One is teaching other Marines how to be a Marine officer at Quantico. One is buried in the Nicholls Cemetary as a result of hostile action in Viet Nam."\par
"I am very sorry for your loss."\par
"Thank you for your compassion. He did not waste his life.  He volunteered and died bravely. Around here valor is celebrated, although America seems to have moved in another direction.  I think Nicholls is unique in that the Marine Corps ethos is the same as that of the town, and by that I mean the town is patterned after the best things in the Corps. And there is a lot of good in the Corps."\par
"Thank you," this was Marigold. "Did you serve?"\par
"No," Deem replied.\par
"Not everyone makes it in." This was the elder. \par
"Well, I didn't try."\par
Mr. Pfingster grappled with that thought and the idea that this was a guest. "Well," he said.\par
Marigold asked him, "And your father?"\par
Deem knew this would not go over very well. "He was drafted into the army.  He spent his time doing laundry stateside."\par
"I see," said Elder Pfingster.  He wrestled with several things to say and wound up silent on that point.\par
  It went on like that, as they tried to find some connection, any connection, something in common, anything in common.  It formed in Deem's mind that here was a cultural gap between the college-educated who know nothing of the military and the military who never made it to college.  \par
Dinner was cold ham, cold potato salad and jello, very good without being ostentatious. It was a relief in the heat, as Mr. Pfingster was chary with the air-conditioning.  There was an window unit in the room he was allowed (Mr. Pfingster's term) that he was welcome to use, but he should keep in mind electricity is expensive and air conditioning softens men. Mr. Pfingster accompanied this with a look that Deem was so far gone that it was no matter.\par
In the bedroom was a picture, of course, of a son of theirs in uniform in front of a flag. There was also a map of a Pacific Island called Pelileu and two older pictures of men in uniform. Their names were by X marks on the map.  There was a display of medals for them.  The whole house was like that, with walls covered with maps and pictures of Pfingsters that "had served our great land going back to the founding of the Marine Corps. A lot of tradition, a lot of memories, a lot of blood."  That was how Julius Pfingster talked.  It would not have surprised Deem if every house in Nicholls was the same way.\par
"That is my Bill," said Julius Pfingster, "Currently serving in Afghanistan." These were my brothers, Robert and Michael, who died on a little scrap of island in the middle of the Pacific. You can see where they died, one repulsing a Jap attack on the first night and the second crossing the airport. We lost a lot of good men." And so it went around the house, with Mr. Pfingster - calling him more informally would not be tolerated - showing him every picture and telling the story. He had served under Chesty Puller on Pelieliu and in Korea.   Deem realized that this was important to Mr. Pfingster and perhaps the key to some possible friendship.  Elder Pfingster was also older than he looked.  Deem listened as he was told of Marines in Viet Nam, in Korea, in World War II, then in action in the Dominican Republic, and on back to somewhere in France where they acquired the name devil dog, and back further, each generation of Pfingster men back to the first generation reporting to duty, serving the country. Many had not come back. Mr. Pfingster had uncles, great-uncles, brothers, cousins, nephews and a niece and a son who had paid the ultimate price.  In his family that had been going on since the founding of the Corps. It was an entirely new and different culture, for lack of a better word, for Deem.  His father had been drafted and served out his enlistment in the army as a clerk at Fort Dix.  Aside from that, he had had no exposure, really, to the military.  Some war movies....\par
"How does your faith in God operate in the face of so much loss and sorrow?" Deem asked him.  Many would have given up, would have thought God was evil, or remote, or apathetic.\par
The question pleased the elder. "I like that question. I am no platonist. I believe the Holy Spirit is active in history and shaping people, places, politics and events.  God knows what is good for us and we can trust His providence. He knows and arranges our times. I am also no Arminian, neither am I a fatalist. I am a Christian. I follow Christ and that means His orders. If he had wanted me to have a pain-free life, He could have arranged it, I suppose. Over the years He has worked a lot of Romans 5 and 1 Peter 1 into me.  And Psalm 139. Romans 9."\par
They sat on the east side porch and watched the sun go down.  This was a man of faith and power, not just a cartoon Marine, Deem realized.  How could he possibly pastor people like this?  The elder told war stories, both in the Marines and at the church, and stories of surprising peace and beauty in strange places.   \par
It was nine thirty when he was done and dismissed to "get some rack time". Deem had hoped to have the evening to write his sermon, which he he had learned of that day. He rummaged through his briefcase: he had only a New Kings James and a small UBS Greek New Testament, one with a running dictionary along the bottom of every page, which made it friendlier, a pad of lined paper, and some pens. His mind was numb. Fuzzy.  Soaked in Marine Corps culture.  What could he preach on? His mind went over the day but he saw no pattern, no nothing. It was dry. Dead. So he prayed.  He had to wow them, that was for sure, and nothing less than a really challenging verse, a sermon packed with learning and insight, driven home correctly, would do.  Eppers put a priority on good preaching, rightly founded, solidly exegeted, brought forth clearly and solemnly with direct application.  He decided to select a difficult passage. His homelectics professor had said Hebrews was always challenging, so that would be good. He recalled a discussion fairly well on parts of Hebrews 7, so some of that work was done. He had done a paper on Granville-Sharp's rule, so he could put that in there.  He read over Hebrews 7 with a grim determination. He could not see much more than words on paper. When he picked up his pencil that long-ago discussion flew out the window, and he found himself confused on the difference between Colwell's Rule and Granville-Sharp's rule. Or was it Coldwell. And was it Granville Sharp. One person. But they were two separate people. No matter. He would mention both in passing, work them in somehow, and that would lead to a triumph. They would weep and thank him for coming and ask him to stay. Life would be good again. The stress of the past three years would be gone.\par
He was suddenly back on campus. The dean had called him in and explained that he was back on academic probation, and they were concerned, very concerned.  He would be assigned a tutor and possibly given extra time, but his grades must improve.  And then there was the matter of his overdue tuition.  Things were not promising. He really need to hit the books and understand, because that year was the basis for the next two. He needed to apply himself. Yes, he had been provisionally accepted, but they were reviewing that. And then there was the matter of the man he had led to the Lord, and his later crimes while Deem was discipling him, and him now serving time.  Not a good reflection on Deem or the seminary.\par
So it had gone. All three years he had had little conversations with the dean, and with various professors, and his work had never quite been good enough to not say anything, but never so bad that they were convinced dropping him would be the right thing. He was in a nightmare of uncertainty academically that emotionally exhausted him and left his mind numb at times. And the tuition situation was that people, even strangers, had been prompted to send money to cover his tuition. Generally money would be short until the day they decided to can him, and then a check would come in with just enough that they would let him continue. His health had suffered and his second year was a continual fight against walking pneumonia, which had not gotten so bad he could be hospitalized, or so good that it went away. He was just sick all the time.  His car broke down, and he had no money to fix it.  That winter it was snow covered because he was too ill to dig it out.  Someone mercifully stole it and it was found, the windows all smashed and the tires gone, burned out on a country road outside the town.  He had had to pay to get it towed to a salvage yard, and then the disposal fee. \par
"You must be walking by faith," the dean said once,"But nonetheless I do not envy this path you are on."\par
Fellow students had fallen asleep when he had preached in class, and once, the professor. Once the professor had actually stopped his sermon in mid course and asked him to go home, rewrite it and try again.  His fellow students got consistent high praise. There was sort of a polite, silent sigh when it was his turn to preach.  The professor would write furiously on his note pad, but he would only, eventually, say one or two things to Deem.  Deem compared it to the sort of things you say to a strange dog that has to be put down, one that maybe could have been a good dog but now is past hope.\par
And now.  There was this blank paper in front of him and Sunday was coming. He needed to focus, and so he took out his little Greek New Testament and turned to Hebrews 7. There was Melchizdek in verse 15 and again in 17. He knew about Melchizedek, a familiar name. He would preach about Melchizedek and Colwell's Rule. Anarthous predicate nouns. Were there any in the section? He frowned. Not even any equative verbs.  But the vocabulary was difficult: each word, it seemed had a footnote as to what it meant - gloss was the technical term - and how it was declined or whatever. Conjugated.  Greek was over a year ago and it was fading, fading.  You decline nouns. You afflict verbs. No, the proper word is  \i inflect\i0  verbs.  No, both nouns and verbs are inflected.  You conjugate verbs. Had he forgotten his whole education? That familiar feeling came back of a dull lump at the bottom of his stomach, and he pressed on.   He read the Greek and in between every word he looked it up below, and then hit on the idea of copying the English words onto his paper, so he would have the order correct in the Greek. He did this, and it made no sense. It made no sense even when he read the English translation. He circled 'Melchizedek' on the paper because it was repeated, but aside from that the passage refused to give up its meaning. He wrote 'No equative verbs!' and underlined it. There was the word transliterated \i hos\i0  at the start of verse 16, which had no note in the notes below. Was it short for hosious?  That meant holy, acceptable to God. He didn't think that was right. Maybe it was a form of ho, which means 'the' for masculine nominative singular nouns, or something else.  He wrote 'relative promoun' finally on his paper , corrected the m to an n, circled it and drew an arrow to the 'hos.'  He continued working on the passage, and he was developing some confidence that there was a sermon coming.  Melchizedek, the embodiment of holiness.  He scratched that out because it didn't inspire anything else and he wasn't sure what to say about it. There was \i taksin: \i0 order. The word always made him think of taxicabs. Order a taxi. Melchizedek ordering a taxicab. Maybe a chariot.  But was he pre-chariot? No. There were no taxis in Nicholls.  Probably the closest were up in Kansas City, but he could not recall seeing one.  Never mind. No equative verbs.  He underlined it again to help him focus.  He tried other words with other sorts of associations, little hare-brained trails.  Colwell's Rule was out the window.  He looked out the window, where there was a neat lawn in the long fenced backyard and a tree and a large vegetable garden with precise rows of plants.  What, he could not tell.  The lots in Nicholls were set before there was indoor plumbing and the outhouses had been back there, away from the houses, and without a smile Mr. Pfingster had said that was where the gardening was the best. Now they  had a sewer system.  Mr. Pfingster said the gardens weren't nearly as good as when he was a boy, before they put in the sewers.  There were storm sewers and sanitary sewers, gas lines and water lines, all underground, all crossing each other.  It must be a mess down there, underground.  A few streets away there were cones in the street. Someone was repairing something.\par
He listened to the town. Somewhere someone cried out,"Corpsman! Over here" and someone else took up the cry:"On your right!" and "Incoming!" "Lieutenant, Minsky's been shot."  They were reliving their wars.  Did this happen every night? It went on for a long time.  \par
Suddenly Deem looked up at the clock.  It was three AM.  He looked down at his paper and realized it was an incoherent mess of scribbles, arrows and question marks. Out of the mess, in the middle, the phrase "No Equative Verbs!" boldly proclaimed itself, which he seemed to have gone over repeatedly with his pen, like a motto for a club of English professors or something.  The thought wandered in that a Greek sentence did not necessarily need one.   As to anything else, he could pick out where 'Melchizedek' was, but his handwriting, generally poor, seems to have been even worse than normal. 'Relative Pronoun?' was clear as well. There, 'Kai=and".  A note ' men - de is a mark of literary Greek but does not appear here' (that was from class.  Which class? First year, second semester.  That was the semester when his car had become involved in a lawsuit after being stolen, and he had, separately, been mistakenly picked up and held overnight because he had a strong resemblance to an escaped felon.  And the superglue incident, when he had unknowingly stepped on a tube buried under the snow, and his boot had gotten stuck, with all the complications).  Maybe morning light would help. Maybe he should avoid the Greek and try again just from the English. He committed it all to God, then he sighed and went to bed. Maybe it would look better in the morning.  Probably. It couldn't look much worse.\par
 \par
}
 