{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Isaiah looked at the potato peeler, its twin blades glinting in the light.  There was a big pile of potatoes in front of him, a cutting board, and an almost empty collander, in which two or three badly peeled potatoes lay, having escaped him.\par
"Get to work, Isaiah."\par
"Aw, Lois, this is GIRL's work."\par
"There is nothing wrong with doing GIRL's work. Or GIRLS, for that matter.  You are not getting out of it because you think it is GIRL's work.  Sounds like laziness to me. Excuses. Besides, do you know what a lot of guys in the army do? They peel potatoes.  They don't like it either, but they man up and peel potatoes like a man. So man up, Isaiah."\par
So he sighed and complied and died and yielded and peeled.  Not fair. Not fair at all. Why did God make potatoes if we have to peel them? Apples have peels. Only a crazy person would peel an apple, right? So why peel potatoes.  But he was quiet, as he knew he was not getting out of it. And sometimes you even peeled apples.  But not today.  Chores were part of life, and as he got older he found himself with more of them.  Feed the dogs.  Take the recycling buckets to where they went. Nothing was thrown out, not at the Ranch, and someone had to carry them.  At least the days of the honey-buckets was over, when there was no plumbing and every day the honey wagon came around and someone crawled under every trailer and got every bucket and dumped it in the tank and then put every bucket back.  Papa had told him about having to make sure the bucket was in the right place.  And in the old days at the Ranch you had to get firewood, or heating oil, depending,  and stand in line for water, and there had been a communal kitchen way back when, where everyone served.  He had it easy, all things considered.  It had been long before he was born.  And the dining halls were still around.  Some people still ate there.  Pollers ate as a family.  How come? He didn't know.\par
He peeled carefully.  Lois would be inspecting both the peels and the potatoes, and if he took off too much potato or not enough peel, or went too slowly, he would hear about it, and maybe Mama would hear about it, and Papa might hear about it.  He wanted Papa to know they were pleased with his work, so he peeled silently and found he was getting better at it, although his fingers were getting tired after a while.  Every few minutes Lois would come and look at his potatoes and progress and make comments.  The collander was very slow to fill up, way too slow as far as he was concerned.  And he was made to re-peel some of the peelings, as they had too much potato with the peel. And some of the potatoes had too much peel left, so they had to be redone.\par
Potatoes done, Lois inspected, he redid somes potato. Into a pot the potatoes went, and onto the stove with that. Whew.  But before he could escape he had to sweep under where he was working, and then sweep the kitchen, and put out the plates and glasses, ready to be set after Lois got the table ready for setting.  He got Boomer's bowl ready and that meant more sweeping. He would never escape, what with their four eyes on him.  If Mama wanted him to do something, when they were cooking, she would relay it through Lois.  It didn't used to be that way.  It was like having two mothers, both with eyes like eagles and heads full of ideas to keep him busy. Sometimes they talked rapidly in Koine, and Isaiah missed most of what they were saying. He suspected that was intentional.  Often Lois would tell him to do something immediately afterwards, or Mama would ask him something.  But probably a lot of it was just the way girls are always talking.  One language wasn't enough for them, so they used two.\par
Boomer barked happily from the porch and Papa came home.  He picked Mama up in his hands and held her with her face above his, and lowered her face to his, "Angel kisses," he said, and kissed her. "I will always love my angel."\par
"Sweet husband," she said,"Put me down. Baby on board, you know." He gently lowered her  and was rewarded with another kiss.\par
"Smooching," sighed Isaiah.\par
"You wouldn't be here if we didn't smooch, old man!" said Papa, and he picked Isaiah up but didn't kiss him. "This is what it looks like from my height, which you will have someday, I expect," he said, and carried Isaiah around the room.  He pretended to almost walk into the chandelier, but swerved, and set Isaiah down. Then he hugged and kissed Jeremiah and Ezekiel and Daniel, taking them both up and rubbing his beard on their heads.  They giggled.  Isaiah was amused at how Papa treated little kids. He was too old for that, but it had been fun when he had been a kid.\par
"Some papers there for you," said Mama, glancing at the in-box.\par
"Always. Work orders."\par
"There is a letter from the Council of Twelve in an envelope. And a letter."\par
Papa grew somber, and sat down and read the first letter silently.\par
  "You go now, Isaiah," Mama said,"Go set the table." So he stopped staring at Papa and set the table.\par
"Bad news?" Mama asked, after a minute or so.\par
"Nah, nothing we haven't heard about before.  We will talk at dinner. No worries."\par
That was good, thought Isaiah.  If it was bad, it would have been "we will talk later." \par
"And here's the second letter - from my brother's wife Lydia Bronski."\par
"Oh? What does she have to say?"\par
"She greets us from her settlement in Kansas - I think they are three hours west of Wichita? Anyway she and her husband and children are doing fine.  She also says we do not need to pray any more for Dr. Marcel Brown - she included his obituary."\par
"Oh, I am sorry he died.  We have been praying for him, at her request."\par
"Yes.  You remember he brought Lydia here long ago - I think it was in the late 90s, before she was married to my brother, years before we showed up.   I heard things here and there even years later about him - sort of abrasive.  People say things.  I suppose I should not have said that, but it may be relevant.   It seems he lost his teaching position shortly after his visit here.  He spent some years with a communist society in Calfornia, until they kicked him out.  Then he drifted, it seems, and died penniless in a specifically secular homeless shelter in Florida.  I have to read some of that between the lines.  I heard bits and pieces over the years.  He never accepted Christ."\par
"That's sad.  I know he heard the Gospel here."\par
"Yes, but this was his own choice.  He and Lydia were a couple.  I heard her testimony.  He factored into her life quite a bit.  She came here and rejected him in favor of Christ."\par
"I don't recall him.  Perhaps I never met him: he was before our time here. Did he leave anyone behind?"\par
"No. No children. Several ex-wives.  His former university posted his obituary \i pro forma\i0 , as he had been tenured. Lydia went there and gets the alumni news.  And there it was."\par
"Sad.  But he made his bed; there let him lie.  I don't want to waste time mourning someone who rejected Christ."\par
"Me neither.  Mainly I'm thinking of Lydia.  She will be fine.  How about some dinner?"\par
\par
So they assembled: Papa and Mama and Lois and Isaiah and Jeremiah and Ezekiel and Daniel, the last in his high chair between Papa and Mama, with Lois between Jeremiah and Ezekiel. Oma was not feeling well and Lois had taken her a tray.  That was happening more and more, Isaiah thought.  Papa went and said hello to her, and then returned.  Everyone sat down.\par
"Let us pray," said Papa, and they bowed their heads,"Almighty heavenly Father, make us truly grateful for the gifts we are about to receive."\par
"Amen," said everyone.  And it was potato soup with carrots and chicken, with biscuits and beans besides. There was a potato salad.  Isaiah looked at his potato pieces, which he thought about them being his. But someone had diced the potatoes into tiny pieces. \par
"Papa, Isaiah peeled the potatoes."\par
"Ah," said Papa,"And a fine job you did, too. You know what guys in the army do?"\par
Isaiah smiled. "They peel potatoes. Did Lois put you up to that?"\par
"Why no.  Your Mama did. She told me what Lois said. 'Put me up to that', indeed. Not a way to talk to your father. Don't do it again."\par
Isaiah had the feeling there was a lot more Mama had told Papa. But then Papa seemed to always know everything. \par
"Papa, what about the letter from the Council?" Isaiah asked.\par
"In due time, Isaiah."\par
Mama broke in, "Papa, Lois tells me she has been seeing a man." \par
"Indeed? Does this man have a name?"\par
"Yes.  Timothy Almondson.  He lives near the north edge."\par
"Uh-huh. A good man.  Works hard.  Knows how to lay pipe. Weld. Strong. Pious. Not that the last is not the least important. A man must be the spiritual head of his household. In that he must be good, working hard to build a godly family, wise, strong, pious. Right, Isaiah?"\par
"Yes, Papa."\par
"Lois will be eating dinner with his family and her family, alternately."\par
"I see. So...wedding bells?"\par
"Papa," Mama replied,"It looks promising and serious, but let's not rush things."\par
"Well, good.  We will have another empty chair. Perhaps we can have guests?"\par
"That would be good."  Before they had children, they had had plenty of guests. Papa had told Isaiah you have one or the other, but the guests eventually leave for good. The children come back, it is to be hoped. "We need another \i jongedamme\i0 . Especially with the baby coming."\par
"Yes.  I have made inquiries.  Word is out.  This Lois has been superb."\par
"Yes, she has been." There was a silence.\par
"I know who you could invite," said Isaiah. "The poor, the destitute, the lonely.."\par
"That's good! You have been reading your Bible? And I suppose you have such a person in mind?"\par
Isaiah replied, "I invited Ellen.  She is the new singer on the worship team."\par
"You invited Ellen? There is only one Ellen on the Ranch now.  You outdid yourself with this one, Isaiah."\par
"I think she needs friends."\par
"Do you know who she is?"\par
"I think she is someone who is lonely.  She is my friend."\par
"Your friend? She is your friend? What do you mean, Ellen Reddy Bread is your friend? You are eight years old!  She is in her twenties.  It is not right, is it?"\par
"I mean we have talked on the road.  That is all.  I talk to lots of people."\par
"You do talk to lots of people.  Well.  This is news.  You have invited Ellen Reddy Bread to our house, for dinner. I suppose the president is next?"\par
"Papa, please." Mama did not like sarcasm. \par
"That is an idea," said Isaiah.  He looked at Mama, but there would be no help from her on this one.\par
Papa stared at him, but there was also a twinkle in his eye. "I would like to see you pull that one off," he said.\par
"But I told her I was going to get her a husband."\par
"You are going to get  Ellen a husband?" this time Mama was astonished. "You should not go around telling single women such things."\par
"No, you should not."\par
"I am very sorry. It won't happen again."\par
"No. It won't."\par
"Well. It would not be because she is -"\par
"We can hide all her music albums.  I think we have all her early music, before.."\par
"But as an act of kindness towards a lonely sister in Christ."\par
"She has a sister.  We can invite both."\par
"I will go around and invite them," said Mama.  Lois was looking like she would love to eat dinner with the great Ellen Reddy Bread, maybe get a song out of her.  Mama frowned that thought away.  Isaiah could tell when they communicated like that.\par
"What have you heard of the new pastor in town?" Mama asked. Isaiah thought she was sneaking up to the question of 'what about the letter'.  Papa would discuss it 'in due time'. \par
"That would be speculation at this point.  He is not pastor yet.  It may mean things for the Ranch, but no one knows yet.  As general superintendent, I learned today that we are in line for him as a dinner guest. Our leaders want the walls to come down between us and the church in Nicholls.  I met him, but only for a moment.  Maybe,"Papa said, looking at Isaiah with some amusement,"we can have him over at the same time as Ellen."\par
"Well, he and his wife," said Mama, "Aren't pastors always married."\par
"I heard he is single."\par
"Unheard of. Possible, I suppose, but I have never heard of that among the Eppers."\par
   "Ok, the letter.  They are thinking about reorganizing Ranch management again and having a General Manager, someone with an advanced college degree, come in.  It would not be your Papa, because he does not have a degree.  Some people have complained because some stuff has not been done as soon as they think it should be done.  Not to think badly of the situation, they have had worse.  Might not happen. Everyone wants everything now. It has always been like that, and you can't blame them.  The letter was to reassure me that it was nothing against me, I am valuable, etc.  Just to quench rumors and gossip, which, I think always seem to need quenching.   They tried this once, you know, with that Halbrook fellow as Executive Director with his big fancy management degree and books and reports. It was pie-chart this and Microsoft-Project that, except they found that if they wanted something done, it was faster to just ask me. We  got it done while he was "scoping the project".    The crews more than me.  Nice fellow.  He's working at one of the big engineering firms up in Kansas City and I run into him every once in a blue moon."\par
"Does the moon turn blue, Papa?"\par
"I think it is just an expression. It means once in a great while."\par
"There may be a moon in the annual cycle called a blue moon."\par
"Well, Isaiah, no worries. No worries, anyone.  Plenty of hard work for all. Did you hear about Jimmy today?"\par
They had not.  This would be one of Papa's stories.   \par
"Well, we were working on the new  and Matt W. was taking two glass panels up on the lift, the crane being in use, broom-broom, when splooosh - a gasket blew - and Jimmy caught it - it- the hydraulic fluid -full-on.  WHOOSH." Even Ezekiel was laughing at the story, at Papa's face and sounds and gestures.  It was not a sin to laugh, but Lois had been very surprised at these stories when she had first come.  Now she laughed along with them, but it was very subdued.\par
Paul said, "Stand under a bucket - we don't want any of that fluid to go to waste!" And Papa laughed. "Jimmy stripped right there and squeezed it all out of his clothes into the bucket, wiped his face and squeezed that.  He still had to go home and take a shower.  Later he brought back some hydraulic fluid from when his clothes were washed and his shower, that he skimmed.  These Eppers never waste anything!" It was true, but it was funny. Papa could make you laugh so hard.\par
 "Well," said Mama, after a moment when they were all smiling, still laughing, and looking at each other. "I knows who she is and where she lives. We will not sing."\par
"Like we could." There was another round of laughter.  Everything was good, everything was golden. Isaiah loved his family.   Papa reached for his Bible and his Greek New Testament. "I am going to put you on the spot, old man," he said to Isaiah.\par
"I am up for it."\par
"I know you are.  A little bit of humility goes a long way, old man." He read John One, first in Greek and then in English. "Jeremiah, who was John here?"\par
"Uh...John, who wrote John? I mean the writer of John. That John."\par
"Sorry. The passage is speaking of John the Baptist."\par
"Awww."\par
"Isaiah, what word here is in the perfect tense?"\par
Isaiah thought for a moment.  Papa had been talking to Oma.  This morning they had discussed the perfect tence, including,including verse.....18? "\i Heooraken\i0 : he saw. Perfect of \i oida\i0 . \i horaoo \i0 is used in the present.."\par
"Close, but not perfect." He winked at the pun.  'He saw' is simple past.  In the perfect it would be...."\par
"has seen. No one has seen him."\par
"Very good, Isaiah."\par
"Ezekiel, was the word 'light' in there?"\par
Ezekiel nodded, excited at being quizzed like his brothers.\par
"What about 'donkey'?\par
Ezekiel shook his head and smiled.  His parents smiled back.\par
They prayed, Papa and Mama alternating leading prayers for family and friends and the country and the Ranch, the church in Nicholls and the lost and lonely and hurting, for wisdom for their leaders.  \par
"Isaiah, from now on you are to help not only in clearing the table, but in doing dishes."\par
"Isn't that what Lois is for?"\par
"No.  She is learning how to get children to do chores. People like you, Isaiah Poller, need to learn to work. And if you were listening, soon she is not going to be here for dinner anymore. Time to step it up, Isaiah. She will teach you how to do dishes."\par
"If Lois gets married, maybe Ellen can come and do dishes."  Mama did not know what to say.\par
Lois's only response was, "You are one of a kind, Isaiah."\tab\par
}
 