{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Nicholls Grocery was three blocks north of Pfingsters.  Deem had been asked to run the quick errand for eggs and milk.  Kitten was changing the oil on his truck and didn't have time. Deem had the feeling Kitten was avoiding him and Marigold was assisting him in that.  She could have gone. But  there he was, apparently idle. She had had to cook a second breakfast from her cleaned-up kitchen, which she had politely and seemingly cheerfully done, but it was clear breakfast hours were over.  \par
Deem was not going to find enemies under every bush.  He liked people. Some liked him back, others didn't, and that was their problem, not his, even when it affected his ability to do what God called him to do.  But then God was unstoppable.  Fortified with God and with food, he was also feeling unstoppable.  Three books had appeared on his rack: \i Battle Cry \i0 by Leon Uris, \i Corps Value\i0 , by Zell Miller, and Gates \i of Fire - an Epic Novel of the Battle of Thermopylae\i0  by Steven Pressfield.   Deem leafed through them and read the flylead, table of contents and some scattered sentences in each.  They looked interesting.  Better than having to memorize diagrams on how to strip a 50 cal machine gun.  A poster that he had not noticed before "Improvise, Adapt and Overcome" showing what looked like a recruit going over a wall, with a DI barking at him, had appeared in his quarters.  Point taken, elders.  Was the term 'got it' or 'understood'.  He'd have to get the jargon down. How much of it could there be?\par
So off he went, on foot.  The birds were singing and the heat had broken. It was really rather pleasant this Monday morning, and he smiled at a few people who had been at church yesterday.  For the moment he put the earlier meeting out of his mind.  The evening service had gone well - instead of directly teaching, since he had not had time to prepare anything, he had opted to ask questions, and he had a feeling people were digging into Hebrews in case they were called on again.  He was curiously light in heart, something he had not felt in a long time.  Things were promising.  It had only been a week ago that all he had eaten for a week was a can of corn and a head of lettuce.  When he had gotten to Kansas City Aaron had decided he needed to be fattened up a little before he went down to Nicholls, so they had stuffed him for a week so he would not eat like a hog when he was presented with food.  It had not been the first week he'd lived on lettuce and corn.  And he had two weeks before the future came with all its uncertainty. Two weeks of sunshine.  And he'd gotten four hours of shut eye in his rack.  Maybe he could take a number this afternoon. \par
Here the sun was shining.  People were sweeping their front steps. "Morning Reverend" he heard and waved, even from people in the houses with the regulation Mary statue in their front garden, her heart crossed, in the exact middle, facing the street with a military exactness in a weed-free garden, a weed-free yard, a weed-free city. \par
Here was the church.  And the parking lot. And the car! He stood, amazed.  Then he walked around it. Not a dent, not a scratch, not a flat.  Someone had even washed it.  The keys were in it, like in all vehicles in Nicholls.  Everyone knew whose cars were whose and if  you or a stranger were found driving the wrong car, questions would be asked then and there, by people with weapons who knew how to use them.  There was no car theft in Nicholls.\par
He got in.  There was a note on the seat. FOUND CAR ON ROAD AND PUT IT IN OUR DIRVEWAY FR SAFEKEEPING. HARD IT WAS YRS. HOPE YU DON MIND WE WARSHT IT. GOT BLEST   Well, that was nice. It was also full of gas.  So he smiled and drove it and pulled into the gravel lot at Nicholls Grocery.\par
HALP WONTED the sign said.  Could people here spell? Not a strong point of the Bulldogs, apparently.  If things didn't turn out for him as a pastor, he....no.  There was that divide between laity and clergy.  He could never live here as a non-pastor, because he had been a pastor.  He sighed.  He was beginning to like the place.\par
Nicholls Grocery was like one of those grocery warehouses on the low end of the scale, with no frills, no ornamentation, just the facts.  In fact, there were no signs telling you where anything was, or, in the greeneries, what anything was or how much it cost.  Apparently you were supposed to know.\par
It was not exactly uncrowded either.  There were plenty of people and there was a constant chatter of information,actually,about how much things cost: "Dollar twenty five." "It was a dollar ten last week - Carl, what is up with that" and so forth.  He worked his way through grocery carts, nodding his head at people, and finally found the eggs in a dairy case, in what appeared to be a reusable container. Not styrofoam, but sturdy plastic.  He checked his  dozen and they were all intact, and were obviously from a local place that didn't both to sort by size very well, as they were somewhat different. Some were white, some brown, some speckled.  The milk was in a glass bottle.  The glass bottles were marked with a letter code: Marigold had told him to get one gallon of D4.  He found one and got it, and then worked his way through the crowd to the front.\par
There were several lines and things were moving slow.  He nodded to the man in front.  He was holding a piece of paper that Deem recognized was an employment application. He was about Deem's age and rail-thin, unshaven, but his hair was combed.  His shirt was cheaply made but was clean, and so were his jeans, altough they were worn out and very threadbare.  He was wearing worn-out sandals. \par
"Manager" it said on the nametag of the middle-aged woman who took the application. The rest of her said Marine in a way that this man didn't.\par
"Where do you live again?" she said dubiously.\par
"Easy Street, over on the east side. You know."\par
"Nicholls doesn't have an east side."\par
"It's in Nicholls Trailer Court."\par
"I'm sorry. We don't hire people out of there. Next!"\par
"But I need a -"  But she had turned to Deem with a smile, and somehow the man was simply gone.\par
"Good morning, sir! You're Mr. Futz, aren't you? Heard you preached a good sermon. But I go to St. George." \par
Deem smiled and slid the  five dollar bill Marigold had given him across the counter.\par
The cash register was the old fashioned kind, one Deem had not seen in years. Mechanical. It rang up the amount noisily and with a chug-a-chug printed out a receipt, black ink on white paper, two copies, one for the store and one for him.  Deem took his milk and eggs over to the bagging table, where there were cloth bags.  The man who had been ahead of him was still there, still clutching his application.\par
The manager saw him then. "We don't need your kind in here. Get out or I'm calling the police."\par
The man shuffled out, looking hungry.  Deem almost passed him.  A memory of weeks of eating nothing but lettuce and corn filled his mind.  The man looked lost, forlorn, discouraged.\par
They walked together, silently.  The man turned east as if to walk back over the highway along Main and back to the trailer court instead of finding a car.\par
Deem watched him for a minute.  Then he put his groceries in the back seat of his car and called to the man.\par
"Hey, sir," Deem called.\par
The man jumped as if he had heard a noise and put his hands out to show he was unarmed. He slowly turned around.  He was surprised.\par
"You're not a cop," the man said, wondering.\par
"No," Deem said,"I try to keep civil order another way. Are you hungry?"\par
"Oh, yes," the man said. "I have not eaten today. I have a wife at home and three kids and I can't get a job in this town because I live on the wrong side of the highway. We moved down here because of a job offer, and then they withdrew it, and there we were, in the trailer court. We can't afford any more."\par
It was painfully familiar to Deem. But what could he do? The only money he had had been Pfingster's five dollars.  But there was enough..\par
"I can't do a lot for you.  I don't have a job myself."\par
"Looks like we are in the same boat."\par
"Looks that way.  But. Tell you what.  Wait right here and I will be back." So he fought the crowd again and came back with a bottle of D4 milk, a loaf of bread, a can of corn and a head of lettuce.\par
"That's all I can do for you."\par
"Thanks."\par
"Are there no social services here?"\par
"Not in Nicholls County. They say they don't need any. They say Nicholls takes care of their own. But that does not include the trailer court."\par
"I see.  My name is Deem Futz.  I'm the pastoral candidate at the Epper church."\par
"Really? You are a minister and you are giving me food? I thought all that you guys ever did was take, take, take."\par
"Well, if you don't want the food..."\par
"No, no, sorry, sorry.  I hope I didn't offend. My name is Tony. Tony Smith."\par
There was an awkward silence.\par
"Are you going to walk back?"\par
"I lost my car. They repoed it."\par
"Let me give you a ride."\par
"You sure you want to go over there?"\par
"Sure I'm sure."\par
"Ok."\par
Five minutes later Deem pulled in front of a trailer and parked on the pad. There was a short concrete sidewalk going to a grey, unpainted deck.  You turned and went into the trailer there. A number of young men had watched Deem drive in. Young men with beers in their hands, undershirts and low-slung pants and baseball caps on backwards.  There was litter and trash everywhere.  It was hard to believe this was five minutes from Nicholls. \par
Tony took his grocery bag and thanked Deem.  Down the block pickup basketball had started, and the young men drifted behind the car toward the sound of the ball thumping and the clatter as it hit the rim\par
"I'd like you to meet  my family, while you are here. I want them to meet the man who was so good to us."  Tony was smiling so invitingly that Deem could not resist.  This time, though, he pocketed the car keys.  As he walked, two police squad cars sirened their way down a parallel street and stopped over there.  \par
The inside of the trailer was clean, although not as clean as anything in Nicholls, but then few things outside a Marine depot would be.  Tony's wife Ama was busy with a hungry little one. There were two other preschoolers.  There were no decorations on the wall.  The place shouted poverty, something Deem knew from West Virginia.  There was hunger and desperation here.  These were people who had been thrust into the trailer court who did not want to be here but had nowhere else to go.  \par
Deem made his goodbyes and left.\par
The car was gone.  He stood staring for a minute.  "This is getting to be a habit," he said to himself.\par
He went back and knocked on the door.  He borrowed Ama's cell phone and called Kitten. It took twelve rings before Marigold answered it.  He told here what happened, and her final words were, "we don't go over there, ever.  I'll call the police to come get you."\par
Five minuted later two more squad cars pulled into the trailer court, lights and sirens blazing. they parked in front of the trailer.  The drivers stayed in the cars and two cops came up to the door.  \par
"You Futz?" the officer said. These two officers did not look at all happy to be in the trailer court.  They kept looking around.  Deem noticed they were wearing bulletproof vests. \par
Deem nodded.  The officer looked at Tony. "Did you steal the car?"\par
"No," Tony said, astonished.\par
"Why should we believe you? I think you lured this man in here and one of your freak-friends took the car while you kept Futz busy."\par
"Officer, that's not how it-"\par
"I'm taking you in for questioning." The preschoolers howled as they watched their father handcuffed and taken away.  Ama cried silently, reached out a helpless hand, and then dropped it in despair.\par
Ten minutes later Deem was back at the grocery store, and again he found the eggs and the milk.  He again went through line but found he did not have enough money.\par
"You were in here earlier, with that guy from the trailer court," the manager said, much less friendly this time. \par
"He was in line ahead of me."  Somehow Deem felt like Peter denying Christ.\par
"Are you staying with Pfingsters?"\par
"Well, yes."\par
"Which ones?"\par
"Kitten. Marigold."\par
"Ok. I'll charge this to their account. Or pay next time you come in. NEXT!"\par
And Deem walked back to Pfingsters, much less happy than he had been on the way over.  What was going on around here? What was God calling him to do?\par
"You need to stay out of there," the two cops had told him on the way back into Nicholls.  What if he needed to be there, he asked himself.  He thought of Amma and the kids.  Because of him their father was under arrest.  Not exactly, but -\par
"What are we, old friends now?"  It was the detective,  the one he had seen before, coming out of the Sherriff's Office. He looked at Deem and Tony.\par
"What's this?" the cops stopped at the detective's question.  Deem told him the story.\par
"No grounds. Let him go.  And Tony - stay out of Nicholls. Got me?"  With that the detective continued going where he was going.  \par
"Ok, you're free.  Just don't let us catch you hanging around the grocery store and cadging rides, you got me?"\par
Tony nodded. \par
"You can walk back. Now get out of here."\par
Deem watched Tony start walking.  There was this side of Nicholls that he wondered if the church was even aware of.  He checked his watch.  He was supposed to be at Mike Spinkster's for lunch at noon, and to meet him at the bank before then.  It was only 11:30.  He had time for a desperately-needed cup of coffee. So he crossed the courthouse square and made his way to Main, passing Nicholls General.\par
He wondered when the shifts changed here, because two nurses in scrubs were standing on the sidewalk outside the main entrance.    One was older, but the other one was short, young, with long straight brown hair parted in the middle, big thick glasses:, you'd think she'd be really pretty if she took them off but you'd never see her that way. He wondered if either went to his church. The Epper church.  They both glanced at him briefly and looked away as he approached. \par
"Who's that," the younger one said to the older one, after he had passed. Their voices came down the quiet sidewalk.  Deem did not mean to overhear.  \par
"That's the new pastor at the Epper church. Not worth squat, Cratchitt, not worth squat, I hear. You'd break his heart and spit him out."\par
"Yeah.  That's me." She laughed. "I like my men green, like my coffee." \cf1  \par
\cf0 Deem  kept walking, hoping his ears were not as red as his face.  Green?  \par
Time for a cup of desperately needded coffee, hopefully not green.\par
The big truck-rig was parked in the street, the driver sitting along with a magazine and a cup of coffee.\par
"Mind if I join you?"\par
"Sure, why not.  I'm Chad - Chad Barley, by the way."\par
"Deem Futz.  Is that your truck?"\par
Chad nodded. "Yeah, I guess you could say that. I don't own it.  I'm waiting for permits and stuff and I've been told to drive it down here every day because I could get started any minute, and the people who hired my company can't seem to wait to get started. But I've been sitting around.  Some flareup,. I suppose. Big job, too.  I am supposed to thump the whole west half of this county once they clear out a few trailer folk. Riff raff, I've been told."\par
"Really?" Chad seemed to be in a talkative mood, and for some reason people liked to tell Deem things.  He just looked like someone who could keep a secret. What trailer court was on the west side of the county? Surely this was not the Ranch?\par
"Yeah. Really.  I'm supposed to keep this all hush-hush, you know."\par
Deem nodded. That was all he did. He made no promises, except to himself, and that was to find out who else knew about this.\par
Deem was wide awake when he went into the Bank of Nicholls.  The coffee had done its trick.  The lobby was an old-fashioned bank lobby that could have been anywhere. Two security guards in flak jackets carrying rifles was a little different, however.  He smiled at the pretty young receptionist - she could have been the twin of Nurse Cratchitt - and Mike came out.  They shook hands.\par
"The wife has made lunch," Mike said.  And she had.  For that matter, Mike was interchangeable with any of the other elders.  He was younger than Kitten.  \par
When they turned from the sidewalk to the path to the house they were met by a five year old girl.\par
"Hello, sweetheart," Mike said. "Granddaughter," he told Deem.\par
There were various parts of a doll scattered around the yard.\par
"What happened to your doll?"\par
"Stepped on a mine. I'm waiting for a corpsman," the little girl said. \par
How deep does this go? Deem wondered.\par
"Her daddy and mommy are both deployed," Mike explained. "She's staying with us now."\par
"Who are you?" the little girl turned big eyes on Deem. "Are you Schmuckatelli?"\par
"No, no, my name is Futz. Deem Futz."\par
"You look like Schmuckatelli."\par
"Gretchen, it's lunch time. Pick up your dolly and go in. Grandma has a nice lunch for you."\par
Gretchen sighed and collected the dolly. "I hate spam," she said with another sigh, and sadly walked up the steps,"but that's life in the Corps, you know. I am so not going to re-up."\par
The house smelled more of violets than anything else.  The dining room, the middle of three rooms on the east side, held a large table.  One corner of it had two plates and lemonade poured, as well as a plate of cold sausages and a bowl of potato salad.\par
"If you will excuse us, we will eat in the kitchen," The Wife said.  Deem wondered what that was supposed to meet.\par
"I don't want to eat with Schmuckatelli anyway," Gretchen offered, before the door was closed.\par
"Well," Mike said,"that's Gretchen."\par
"Who is Schmuckatelli?"\par
Mike looked a little embarrassed. "It's a Marine term for a guy who doesn't make the grade.  Frankly, there has been a lot of talk about you around town.  I don't think it's called for. I'll be addressing it with Gretchen later.  The thing with that little lady is you always know what she is thinking."\par
"I can see that.  Would you mind -"\par
"Oh, sure.  "Father in heaven, thank you for this food, and bless the hands that made it, and bless our conversation today. In Christ's name. Amen."\par
"Amen."\par
There was silence while food went down for several minutes as they were both hungry.  The importance of eating together, Deem thought.  It was supposed to bring people together.  He'd been eating with a lot of people recently.  Better than a head of lettuce and a half cup of corn, that was for sure.\par
The potato salad had chunky potatoes, not sliced, and it had shallots, capers and cornichons.  It was mayo, not mustard, and Deem thought he detected a little olive oil and vinegar to give it a little kick.  It was delicious.  A little chopped parsley, too.\par
"That's good potato salad, there."\par
"Yeah. English.  The wife's family is from over there.  Her mother was English - met her American dad during the war, and over here they came.  The shallots, capers and the cucumbers used in it were grown in our garden. The wife canned the cornichons, too.  Well, I could talk about her cooking all day.  That's not what this is about."\par
Deem agreed, more to get him to continue than anything else.\par
 "This is confidential.  I could lose my job over this."\par
Deem was listening.  He always assumed every conversation was confidential, unless he was specifically told otherwise.\par
"I've worked at the bank for over twenty years now, ever since I got out of the Corps.  Well, after college.  It was great until we got bought out by that bank up in Harrisonville. You know it's no longer locally owned?"\par
Deem had heard that.\par
"Well, the new owner fired a few people, and bought people out until he had a controlling share in the bank.  No one knew about that second thing until it was a done deal.  He tried to modernize the bank, but Nicholls would not have it.  He wanted a new location visible from the highway, for example.  The Bank has been on the courthouse square for - well, since before 1900, no one knows how long, really, I guess you could find out - and he made a lot of changes.  Mr. Johnson, the new owner, changed policies on loan generation and audited accounts and tightened ship.  Some people had had loans that we had 'let go' for compassion, and he took them to court when he could and made them pay up. He ruined the hardware store that way.  He brought in his people, but they don't like Nicholls and Nicholls does not like them.  We tend to make that point.  The manager lives up in Harrisonville and drives down here. He's my direct supervisor - he's everyone's direct supervisor in fact.  He's from back east somewhere.  He has, to put it charitably, his own way of doing things and that does not go over well here.  We made that point clear and I think that is why there are still Nicholls people employed there, although we no longer make any real decisions. Loans are approved up in Harrisonville, and that's where the lawyers are who swoop down here.  I don't like it and it's been getting worse since Mr. Johnson took over.  Steadily worse, over a long period of time."\par
Deem was listening.  Mike's voice was barely above a whisper.\par
"Mr. Johnson's been very interested in three things. One is if anyone has an account who lives on the Ranch, he wants the information.  The second is the same for Kikker Industries. He's been told that they don't use money at the Ranch, and that Kikker Industries people mostly use their credit union.  I have the strong feeling he wants to acquire both - I know he had people doing title searches on the Ranch at the courthouse - I know someone in the Assessor's office who told me so -and he came down himself today and took those gold coins, which Butler gave to the bank for examination. What I think is -"\par
There was an insistent knocking on the door.  Mike whirled around. He got up and answered it.\par
"Mr. Johnson!"  There were actually two men, one a thin, smaller fellow, and the other a rather large fellow in a pin stripe suit, standing behind him. \par
"Yes. I was told you were eating at home, with a certain guest for lunch.  So I thought I would drop by and meet him."\par
Deem got up and went over.  Something was very, very wrong with  this thin man  with something of the reptile around his smile and his eyes.  \par
"So you are Mr. Johnson.  I understand you own the bank?"\par
"Well, yes I do.  I could not help overhearing your conversation as I was coming up the steps. This is my driver," he said, jerking a thumb dismissively.  The driver nodded in a way that indicated he did not mean it, not at all, and he would rather simply start punching Deem and quit the preliminaries.  Deem wondered how much he had overheard.  \par
"So. You are Deem Futz," Mr. Johnson said, in a way that indicated he knew a lot about him, most of it not worth repeating, and none of it of significance. "I suppose people need churches. Weak people, that is."\par
"Aren't we all weak, Mr. Johnson," Deem asked.  \par
"Not all of us," he returned. "I, for example, am strong.  If there were a God I would fight him for dominance, and I would win.  I certainly would not surrender to Him, like you people do. Frankly I find your idea of a devil much more appealing and in line with the way the world works.  Your idea that God allowed Himself to be weak and to be crucified is appalling. Why would God let himself be killed? For what?"\par
"For us, and out of love. And you forget that He rose again."\par
"Well, you say he did.  Love. Power destroys love, like a boot crushes a flower. I have seen that. Felt it. Lived it.  That is the way of the world."\par
"Aren't you concerned that something or someone stronger than you are will come along and do to you what you have done to others?"\par
"Not a chance.  Mr. Futz, you are amusing. Good day, Mike. We have a few things to discuss when you get back to work." He gave Mike a warning look and he and his driver returned to his car.\par
"Deem, I think I should probably get back there.  Sorry about this."\par
In the five minutes between leaving Mike's house and arriving at Kitten's, the thought firmed up in his mind.  He would have expected it would be about Mr. Johnson, but it was about Tony.  There was nothing he could do in the one case, but something in the second.\par
Kitten was reading in his parlor, in the same chair he had been in earlier.  A pile of books had been pulled out of the shelves, presumably a year's reading for Deem.\par
Deem sat on the couch opposite.  \par
"Good afternoon," Kitten said, far more formally than expected. He did not look up.\par
"Good afternoon."  Silence.  Did he, Deem, have the nerve to do this?\par
"Is there something I can do for you? I am at your service."\par
Deem told him of going to the grocery, and the whole incident with Tony, and the car was gone this time.  Kitten listened with a neither here-nor-there expression until Deem got to his point: he thought Kitten should bring Tony and his family under his roof, host them, help Tony get on his feet.\par
Kitten looked at Deem for a full five minutes and said nothing.  Then he went to the hall where the telephone was and dialed.  Deem listened.\par
"You know that guy Tony the boys brought in today? Does he have a record?"\par
Deem listened.  He watched the second hand go around seven times on the clock on the table.  He hadn't noticed it before.  The house was silent, like it was waiting.\par
Kitten hung the phone up.  He came in and faced Deem. "You're a real pain in the ---," he told him. "That is the biggest kick in the pants I have had in a long time. I think this is what Jesus Himself would do if He showed up here.  You are on. Let's go."\par
"Marigold!"  he yelled.  She came running.\par
"Looks like we've got company coming."\par
"Oh, more seminary students?" She brightened.\par
"No, blankety-blank trash from Nicholls Trailer Court.' She was amazed.\par
"You gonna stand there all day, Mr. Futz?"  And Kitten was out the door.\par
They turned off the Outer Road onto Easy Street and stopped. Kitten checked to be sure he had a nice new full clip in his Colt and put it on the seat between them. He looked like he had his "war-face" on.\par
"Tell me where they live," he muttered.\par
He didn't have to.  They were walking west on Easy Street carrying a few things. A very few things, mostly their kids.  They seemed very sad.\par
"That's them,' Deem said.  \par
Kitten stopped. Deem got out.  Kitten immediately locked his door as Deem went around the truck.\par
"Deem!"\par
"Yeah, that's me."\par
"I didn't think I'd see you again. I mean, we have to leave."\par
"Leave, why?"\par
"Well, me getting picked up was the last straw.  I haven't made my trailer rent, and we got booted out.  This is all we have."\par
"Why aren't you in the truck already?" Kitten wanted to know.\par
"Kitten, Tony. Tony, Kitten."\par
"We can do intros later.  Get in my truck. Now."\par
Tony wondered at Deem. "I'm staying with Kitten for now.  He has agreed to take you in."\par
They got in, all of them,  the whole family in the back seat.\par
"You have a mission, maybe, to take in homeless people?"\par
"More like an insane asylum," Kitten muttered,"for the love of Jesus." He made a shart T turn backing onto the outer road.  The car he almost his honked angrily, and they were away. "And I am completely crazy." \par
They expressed their gratitude, which Kitten basically spit back. \par
\par
\cf1 Monday Deem needs to make the connection between the gold and tbe Boss Deem is concerned about the Marine.nonMarine interface and wants to follow up with an understanding of social problems in Nicholls and figures MS is a good source.  They eat at Spinksters' house, one block off of Main and a short walk from the bank.  Need to map some of this. Deem finds out that people think he is the one who took out four ex-Marines.  Trailer court people are staying out of town today.  Deem sees two police cars tearing out to the trailer court and wishes he could go there and learn what the town needs.  Spends the morning decomprressing, then a session at the pistol range before lunch \par
Deem talks to the thumper truck driver, who is supposed to get clearance to thump where the Ranch is now.  Someone is supposed to clear the people out, Deem learns indirectly, and the driver is bored.  Nicholls thinks this isn't right.  Mike S. knows it's the main bank up in Harrisonville trying to get title to the land.\par
\cf0\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 