{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 Sunday July 17 2016 Nicholls Deem's Second Sunday\b0\par
At this point Deem was glad he only had a week left here.  Kitten was furious for bringing Tony and his family into his house.  The ramrod straight Marine had run into a typical American "college boy" with a degree in English who could not get a job. Epper manners were that you never turned someone away.  Kitten had decided to teach Tony to paint, and the lessons were loud and caustic.  Tony was about to quit.  Kitten was of the opinion that you do not waste paint, you do not use tape, and you don't put it on too thin.  The door into the garage had spent most of the week on saw horses with its hardware removed, being sanded, resanded, painted, stripped and repainted.  It was still in the garage and the feud would be resumed Monday morning at 0630.\par
Marigold was more polite, but she had run into Amma.  Her parents had both worked and her main cooking skills involved a microwave.  The Pfingsters owned one, a Christmas present some years back, and Tony hauled it up from the basement and installed it.  Marigold was learning to use it, and Amma was learning to cook.  Their ideas on how to run a kitchen were in direct opposition, and somehow that was Deem's fault.  \par
The neighbors hated Deem because he had brought this family here.  Anytime something went wrong - flowers picked, gate left open, chalk on a sidewalk - it was Tony's kids fault, seemingly.  And a patrol car was often seen across the street, watching for Tony to do something illegal.  \par
The bishop has said this "was a most unfortunate move, demonstrating a lamentable lack of acument and a deplorable insensitivity" and he would in no way stand in the elders' way. Deem had one week left, but only because they were honorable and decided to see the thing through.  They were all against him at this point.\par
Peg was furious at him because he had found the Tanner sisters, four girls who formerly had played frequently at the church, and had brought them back. They were teenagers. Two sang, one was on cello and the last on the violin, although the two instrumentalists also sang. Their father taught music at Nicholls High.  Mr. Tanner had agreed to return after a conversation with Deem.  Mrs. Tanner was mad at Deem for getting Mr. Tanner to return. She had never wanted to set foot in the Nicholls Epper Church again, and there were little ways she was trying to sabotage it.\par
Most of the town was mad at him over the whole Tony business.  He had one week left and he would be glad to be gone - wherever - and they would be glad he would be gone.  The place was only half full today, and most of the faces were hostile, closed against him, judgemental.  Tony's family sat by themselves, and no one was sitting in the row ahead of them or the row behind them, as if they were infected.  Deem had debated whether to ask them to come.  They'd never been to church before and were curious, Deem being a pastor and all, and it would only be polite, maybe good to expose the kids to some religion.  God help them that this was their first experience. \par
So he was  thinking as had the congregation turn to Matthew 33: 7-10, the passage he had selected for this week.  \par
"Lord, let the meditation of my heart and my thoughts be pleasing to you, let my words by Your words and my thoughts your thoughts. In Jesus' name,amen."  There was a murmured "amen."\par
"You brood of vipers!" Faces woke, people who had gotten ready for a nap and then to congratulate him on a "nice message" looked up. "Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come!"  He was loud. Surprisingly loud. Angry.\par
"You call yourselves Christians! What is the difference, may I ask, between the Pharisees and the scribes and you? Lord, thank you that I am a Marine, that I live in Nicholls, not like these trailer trash.." Deem went on...He brought in other passages about Pharisees, vipers, poison, whitewashed tombs full of the bones of dead men...observing the tiniest requirement but swallowing camels...Hypocrites...Liars...Jesus said love your neighbor...Is the trailer court not your neighbor? You take care of the Marine on your right and your left, but some of your own flesh and blood lives across the highway, and so they are lepers....Heal the sick, raise the dead, give them the good news.."\par
Deem watched himself, surprised.  He was far angrier than he had ever been.  He had been taught not to use an adversarial pulpit but to come alongside, that the gentle approach was best.  He'd learned some new terms the last few weeks and he used them on that congregation.  He had their attention.  He had one more week, but so what.  He was going to let them have it, and he let them have it, and they knew he was letting them have it.  \par
He talked about some of the Pharasaisms he had seen, things that needed to change, needed to change right now.  He wasn't talking to or about people outside "this room" but to the people there, and he was specific and detailed. You weren't supposed to do that, either, but if he was going to be sweeping floors the rest of his life or if they shot him then and then, so what, he was going to have his say, he was preaching, and it was honest, hot, direct, blunt, and unmistakably pointed. \par
"When people look at you, do they think of Christ or or the Corps?" he asked them. "When you look at yourself, do you look with Christ's eyes or with that DI's eyes? The one whose voice is always in your head? Whose voice is louder, Christ's, or the DI's?  Which one do you listen to?" \par
It was supposed to be a 45 minute sermon. He was 35 minutes into it.  Everyone was sort of blown back against the back of their pew, sitting shocked.  A few people were quietly grinning and laughing to themselves.  The sort of "it's about time somebody told the truth" reaction.  Not the "how dumb is this guy" reaction. \par
"I want some answers," he said. "Who is first?"\par
Kitten slowly stood and said,"Padre, no one ever talked like that to us before. I think we deserve it. I, for one, have thought too much about the Corps and too little about Christ. That is going to change." With that, he sat down.\par
Mrs. Tanner, one of the people who had been smiling quietly, said,"Thank you, padre. My family has never been involved in the Marine Corps - one of the reasons we left was because the Corps was always getting the praise - and I thank you for speaking truth."\par
A few more people stood and thanked him.\par
"What are you going to do? How are you going to change this town?"  Deem pressed them. They looked thoughtful, uncomfortable, but resolved to take action.  \par
"Take this week to pray. Ask God to show you how you are to change. And how you are to reach out to the trailer court." \par
Sandy Sands closed the service, and to the Tanners' "What a Friend We Have in Jesus", people filed out and stood talking.  Deem shook hands at the door, and mostly it was a reflective thanks, and did he have any ideas? He didn't. God would show.\par
Peg, somehow, was not in line.  Since she had received some direct fire, it was not surprising.\par
Kitten and Sandy Sands lingered.\par
"Preach like that again, and, boy..."\par
"Yeah," said Sandy.\par
"Yeah, what?"\par
"That was  a proper Epper sermon.  People feel more at home getting reamed out and knowing it than what Hartmann used to do, trying to be buddy-buddy and scaring everyone."\par
"But I was furious, I mean -"\par
"You should read some of the old-time Epper preachers.  Eppers are thick-headed and need good strong sermons that illustrate ways they need to change."\par
They left Deem wondering if he had fouled this one up. He'd been hoping they would let him go and he could leave this lousy town, because he had broken just about every ruled he knew of on how to preach.  But instead they loved it.\par
What a screwy town.  He had one more week.  Maybe he could find some sacred cows to gore.  He wanted to let them have it some more.  At the same time, it felt good, like he's let off some steam. \par
He left through the main door, and to his surprise no one had left.  They were all there, talking in small groups.  Dennis Opp was near him and Deem caught the words "forced annexation" more than once.  Deem was on the top step and they quit talking and turned to him.\par
"You all have lunches to go to, prepared meals, good hot dinners that are getting cold.  You can talk among yourselves, all week if you need to, this is a small town and everyone sees everyone else.  Now, go!"\par
And he waved his arms like he'd once see someone scatter geese, and to his surprise they scattered.\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 