{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Deem locked his door as he was leaving.  The door next to his opened, and a teenaged girl looked at him in a very friendly way.  She was rather skimpily dressed. "You ought to come visit me," she said with a smile.\par
"No thanks," Deem replied."Do you go to church?" He couldn't think of anything else to say. She looked startled and slammed her door shut.  Deem had slowly become aware that the other rooms on his floor were also inhabited by teenage girls with male visitors and that Big Mike, the landlord, was involved. Somehow money was involved.  Deem was very slowly coming to a realization about where he was living,but it had not yet really clicked.  Deem was getting into his car when Big Mike caught up with him.\par
"Hey pastor," he said. "I would appreciate it if you wouldn't bother the girls. Leave them alone or move out. We wouldn't want anything bad to happen, now would we? I am sure you have plenty of people to tell your good news or whatever to, or preach or heal the sick or raise the dead.  I don't care. Just leave them alone. Nothing in life is free, and they aren't either.  If you want to "talk" to them, talk to me first. I am sure you understand."\par
Deem did understand.   Now it was absolutely clear to him what kind of a place he was living in.  He had been trying to ignore it, but now, there it was.  He thought about it: it was "no kind of a place for a pastor to be living in." On the other hand, maybe someone in need would be more willing to  knock on his door than otherwise, so maybe it is a plus. Maybe he can reach these people.  He might have some contact with people he would otherwise never meet. Deem had invited Big Mike to lunch at the diner twice, but no thanks, he's busy.\par
As he drove he thought about the other matter: the dispute between Big Mike and the building owner.  Mike was renting the second floor and the owner was outraged at what he thought was happening, but Mike was smart enough to not get caught. The owner wanted  him out, but Mike had a lease, fully paid upfront, and renting to a pastor lent him some legitimacy.  Deem tried to stay out of it and he suspected both sides were accusing him of spinelessness.  The owner attended, second row, left side, right on the aisle, and gave him this "how could you" look throughout the service, but had never said anything to him. She was a widow in her eighties and rather deaf.  He owed his Session a discussion on this, as they probably all knew the situation but were "respectfully' not commenting on the fact that their pastor was living in a brothel.\par
No one on the Session spoke plattdeutsch.  No one in the church, for that matter.  There were scholars in Michigan who studied Epper church history, but they had decided in the late 1940s to use the language of the people.  The plattdeutsch in the liturgy had become a relic of the late 1500s, peculiar to a small area of Holland, and many who spoke Low German now could not follow it.  It had become a church-language, not spoken on a daily basis, no longer comprehensible, so they had abandoned it.  Once it had been the sole language of Epper communities, but that was no longer the case.  In some ways they were cut off from their own history.  A few works had been translated into English and more into modern Dutch, but much of Epper thought was in untranslated work.  Deem felt he was not in the position of asking the favor of someone at the seminary to come for this funeral for this. They would feel obligated, and Deem did not want to lay that on them.\par
The Pollers had handed him the liturgy book, but Deem could not even read the German font, let along make out the meaning of the words or which prayers were appropriate. Deem hunts for someone who can pray in plattdeutsch.\par
Deem turned into the Ranch proper and noted the small chapel across the pond.  There was something of a rise, and at the top of it was a small stone chapel about a quarter mile away as you would walk from the Ranch. You could see for miles from there, although it wasn't much of a rise. The Ranch cemetery lay beyond it.  From there came the remote sound of a rock-pick as someone dug the grave into the hard limestone.  After the casket was lowered, they would pour a concrete mix into the hole to prevent rising, and then fill it up the rest of the way with gravel, there being nothing to speak of in the way of top soil. A little mound would be made with a small tombstone at the head of it engraved with: Katrine Pol Smit, 1919-2016 In Christo.  That had been done with all the other graves.  She had repeatedly refused to accept the idea that her body should be shipped back to Maryland for internment there. This was where God had put her, and she was going to stay.  She had been emphatic about it when it had been discussed. \par
Deem found the Warren this time without trouble, and knocked. Kati's family had arrived and expected words from the pastor.  The pastor was hoping someone spoke plattdeutsch.\par
A sombre Mr. Poller opened the door, a black armband on his right arm.  Black crepe had been liberally applied and it was clearly a house in mourning.\par
"Pastor."\par
"Mr. Poller."\par
"Allow me to present Mr. Jan Smit and his wife Abigail, Kati's parents. And Matt Smit, her brother.  Mrs. Smit did not come.  This is Richard, their son.  Others are on their way. and should be here soon.  With the short notice - we bury our dead quickly - and the distance, I do not think many will be able to make it."  Her brothers could have been twins, tall, blond with a touch of gray, both slightly portly, blue eyes, the same square jaws. Richard was twelve.  It was clear he did not want to be there, and communicated it silently.\par
"And Kati?"\par
"She is presently indisposed."\par
"Yes.  Well, as you know the funeral is at 10 AM tomorrow.  I have been asked to preside, although I am not the pastor here. I am the pastor of the church in town.  Tell me, is anyone in your family comfortable reading plattdeutsch? It was one of Mrs. Smit's last requests: that the prayers be said in plattdeutsch."\par
"Sounds like Oma.  Still clinging to her religion, until the end." This was Matt.\par
"It was a great comfort to her. And people around here consider it a great comfort that she was," returned Jan Smit. "Pastor, I have kept up with the plattdeutsch - sort of a hobby of mine.  My - our parents - spoke it.  Oma was fluent in it, Father not so much, but he could keep up with it.  It would give me great pleasure to read the plattdeutsch for Oma."\par
"That is a great relief.  I will read the prayers out of the funeral liturgy we use, which I believe is a translation.  As far as I know, it is an accurate one."\par
"It is.  I translated it, you see. Or rather, my work got edited by a panel of scholars.  That is, for the present version of the funeral liturgy now in use."\par
"I read it over.  Very moving.  It does not read like a translation."\par
"No, it doesn't."\par
"Have you done any other work?"\par
"I am working on translating letters Eppers wrote to each other and to family in America about the Stand, especially those who stayed and sheltered the Jews and handicapped. They should not be forgotten."\par
"That would be a good work."\par
"For my part I am a utilitarian.  What good really came out of their decision to throw their lives away when they could have fled?" Matt scoffed.\par
"I think that will be revealed someday."\par
"Really.  Yes, you do believe that. It's kind of sad, really, that you have not left the Dark Ages in your intellectual growth."\par
"A lot of what has happened since can only be described as deterioration, if you knew anything about the Middle Ages." He emphasized 'Middle'.\par
Abigail cut in,"There you go, boys, hammer and tongs, and in front of the pastor, too, and just before your own grandmother's funeral! Really, pastor, they don't know how to behave.  They are always like this.\par
Jan laughed and Matt looked smug.\par
"Well, Mr. Jan Smit, here is Oma's liturgy." He carefully handed it over.\par
"This is astonishing! I never knew she had this, this is the 1570 Antwerp edition, reprinted in 1630 in Berlin! Incredible, and like new! This is antique.  I believe there are not more than ten of these in the world."\par
"There is something of value, probably worth ten million dollars or so," said Matt."And for the record, I have nothing against the old faith.  It did bring comfort to many for so very long. That is some good your religion brought into the world."\par
"And now?"\par
"As I said, I am a utilitarian.  A practical man.  I gave up on God a long time ago.  There are more important things to think about in the world."\par
"I see," said Deem, "Perhaps we should discuss it sometime."\par
"No disrespect pastor, but I think that would be a waste of both of our time. Been there, done that."\par
"As you wish."\par
"I'm bored," said Richard.\par
"Why don't you go find your cousins?"\par
Jan turned to Deem. "Is Dennis well? I should visit him while we are here."\par
"He is quite well, I am sure."\par
Richard sighed and turned around with a sense of resignation and wandered off slowly into the back part of the Warren.\par
There was a knock, and it was five adults.  One was Kati's aunt, and her husband, and another was Kati's sister, who, on finding she was indisposed, went to find her.  Kati's brother was there, along with a woman who was with him, but was neither his girlfriend or his wife, just 'a friend'. Deem greeted them, and explained he was needed elsewhere, which was true. There was loud but friendly argument from the living room. Deem caught "Ranch has improved...no chance Kati will ever return to Maryland to practice law, now, I suppose...She is busy enough defending the Ranch, than you.." Had Deem heard correctly? Overall there was a sense of disdain towards the trailers and the Ranch, as if they were too good to be in such a place.   \par
"Hey!" said Jeremiah.  Richard had not only found them, quietly playing Legos, but had knocked over the tower Jeremiah was building as a way of announcing his presence. \par
"It wasn't any good, anyway.  Nobody plays with Legos anymore. At least nobody smart. Nobody who isn't a little kid."  \par
Isaiah looked at him sharply.\par
"Stupid trailer trash. Morons in flyover country. That is it."\par
"That is not kind," Isaiah told him.\par
"I don't care.  Look at Arnold Ziffle. TWO Arnolds." Zeke was on his hands and knees, reaching for a Lego piece. Daniel was crawling through the Legos, which covered the floor, enjoying the noise.\par
"Who is Arnold Ziffle?"\par
"I am not surprised you don't know who he is."\par
"Ok, who is he?"\par
"Watch Green Acres. That will educate you children."\par
Isaiah was not used to this sort of thing, but he just shrugged it off. People at the Ranch were better than that.  Not getting a reaction, Richard pulled out his phone, put in earplugs and hunched up on the bed and ignored them.  They ignored him.  Isaiah recalled he had been like that last time he had visited, and Papa had told him there were all sorts in the world, some of which it was better to ignore.  Isaiah had been told to play quietly with his brothers. Clobbering Richard could not be done quietly.  If Richard gave him an excuse, things might be different. Isaiah was allowed to finish a fight, but not to start one. Not that there were fights at the Ranch.  Everyone got along.  But Richard....\par
\par
Deem got his directions out.  There was the rehearsal dinner, and then the rehearsal at the chapel. "Turn north." Which way was north?  Just then a door slammed and a nicely dressed young woman with a terrific figure exited the greenhouse door, in the direction he would have figured was east. 'I have made a covenant with my eyes," Deem quoted to himself, 'how can I look upon a young woman?'\par
"Hey," he said, and she stopped dead in her tracks and slowly turned around.\par
"Hi,"she said.  There was about five heartbeats of silence.\par
"You don't look much like a \i jongedamme\i0  in that outfit."\par
"Well, I have a dinner tonight I must be at."  She was half-hoping for a compliment. Nope.\par
"It wouldn't be the wedding rehearsal, would it?"\par
"Well, yes it would."\par
"I almost went the wrong way."\par
"The Ranch is easy, once you figure it out.  It took me weeks, and there are one or two places I still get turned around after six months."\par
"Do you mind showing me where the rehearsel dinner is?"\par
"Not at all."\par
"I did not see your name in the wedding program."\par
"I am there as Helen Poller.  Soloist."\par
"Helen. I like it.  The Poller is good, too."\par
"Well, wiser minds imposed it on me."\par
"Few are those who can choose their own names."\par
Yes, Deem Futz, she thought, but kept it to herself.\par
"Sometime I would like to hear how you managed to become a \i jongedamme\i0 ."\par
"It was offered to me when I was looking for something to do here. Pollers need the help, and there is a lot I need to learn."\par
"I see."  He could either say a lot or almost nothing.  Once said, it could not be taken back. Years earlier, when he had read of the fall of Helen Ripley Bread, it had disturbed him greatly. His heart was overjoyed at the redemption at work in front of him. Such talent gone to jail. Such a shattering. And now a rebuilding.  He feared saying anything lest he break what God was doing.  There was a tenderness towards her in him.  She was a conveyor of grace, someone far above him.  He was like a hobbit in the presence of Galadriel.  He feared to break the moment.\par
He is silent, she thought.  I guess he has a lot to think about, with a funeral and a wedding the same day.  \par
Boomer shambled off the porch and followed them.  Despite the time, they were walking slowly.  The big dog came up and sniffed. "Oh, dear, he likes to paw and lick and climb on people. Can you-"\par
That was doubtful.  Boomer had learned that soon after he heard Ellen's voice, sometimes, he would get fed.  She was now a Poller, family, as far as he was concerned.   He wasn't too sure about Deem.  He made it clear that Deem was only tolerated. But he just seemed to be out for a walk.  And it seemed he was intrigued by new smells, such as what she was wearing. Perfume was a novelty.  Aside from that, he was content, it seemed, to go for a walk and sniff the air, a foot or two behind Ellen.\par
"I am afraid he might tear my hose, or worse."\par
"Or worse.  At least there's no mud."\par
"Yes, there is that."   Boomer sneezed a big old dog sneeze, not so far behind Ellen.\par
"Did he get me?"\par
It didn't look like it. Deem felt awkward checking the back of her skirt. \par
"No. Is that Ranch-made?"\par
They passed a porch with another large dog lying on it.  It picked up its ears and looked at them.  As Boomer passed, it got up and followed them.\par
"Yes.  They do an incredible job here.  Did you know they have a storefront in town, and sell dresses for top dollar?  People come from Paris even, and Hollywood and New York to buy."\par
"Yes. I have spoken to several people.  It is amazing."\par
"Sewing is big here. I am to learn basic maintenance, which means making clothing, including my own underwear.  I told Kati 'next you will want me to sew my own underwear', and she said 'that is in a month or so, I expect'.  Kati sent me around to get fitted for new skirts as befits a jongedamme - leggings do not, at least as far as Kati is concerned, and five beautifully made skirts that were tailored for me arrived later that day. These Ranch people are amazing. Most of the clothing here is Ranch-made.  I can tell your suit is not." Immediately she wished she had not said it. \par
Now there were three large dogs following them closely, wondering where they were going.\par
"You can?" It was Brooks Brothers, measured and tailored. \par
"Yes," she did not tell him it was because it was not as good as a Ranch-made suit, but it wasn't. "So far in sewing I can stab my finger.  Hurray for thimbles."\par
"Hurray for thimbles," Deem said. He really wished he could have said something clever but now it was four dogs.  Then five, all curious as to what exciting thing was happening.  The Ranch should have been named Dogtown. One dog sniffed and then licked Deem's right hand. It was a large German shepherd-lab mix.\par
"Off," said Ellen, and the dog put its head down and whined slightly.\par
"Pat his head.  That is Miles the Wonder Dog."\par
With the head-patting and a little ear-scratching Miles decided Deem was a life-long friend.\par
But there were now seven large dogs following them, well over eight hundred pounds of canine.\par
"Well, we are here."  'Here' was the koinonia hall of the church, as the chapel had no place to eat.\par
"You go ahead, " Deem told her.  They didn't really want to enter together, as people might read something into it.\par
Ellen went in.  Deem suddenly realized that with her gone, the dogs now considered him an intruder.  They were no longer relaxed, but were growling, eyes on him. There were some low barks and a lot of teeth. A lot of teeth. Miles the Wonder Dog totally disowned him and denied ever having received a pat from him.\par
Deem opened the door behind him and walked backwards into Ellen, who was standing there worried about him. With the door shut, the dogs howled for a minute, and then went home.  Doorbells are not needed on the Ranch, Deem thought.\par
"Oops," he said. He looked at her.\par
"I was concerned about the dogs, and you with them."\par
"Well, thanks."\par
They walked together into the fellowship hall, some sixty feet wide and at least twice that long, with a roof supported by wooden arches.  Most of the skylights were covered due to the season, but here and there a shaft of sunlight came down.  There were brightly colored, embroidered wall hangings showing Christ and the disciples eating together.  Here was Christ at Emmaeus, breaking bread, and over there changing water into wine. Deem  wished he had time to examine them, as they seemed to be highly detailed and intricately and beautifully made.\par
 At this end was a kitchen, large enough to support a major meal in the large hall. Round tables had been up that filled a small portion of the hall.  Down at the other end someone was dribbling a basketball until she saw that things were about to start, and she quietly left.  There were more tables set up for tomorrow, and some had been arranged for tonight.  Not over a dozen people for the meal, and four people, dressed drably, were serving and attempting to be background.  That was something that the Ranch excelled in, putting yourself in the background. \par
 Well, thought Deem, we arrived as a couple. Not that anyone would notice. \par
Why did we arrive as a couple? thought Ellen. \par
People did notice. It was a minor issue in the rehearsal dinner. There would be the dinner, and the walk to the chapel, and the rehearsal, and then back here for some socializing.  Ellen would have to leave after the rehearsal: she was needed back at Pollers, but would be back for the bride's breakfast, and then would not be there for the funeral, as she had children to watch, and would be back for the wedding at 1 pm. Why was she telling him all this?\par
Elder Cassell and Deacon Pol got up and came over to them.  Elder Cassell looked rather uncomfortable.\par
"Pastor Futz, may I speak to you privately for a moment?" Ellen left them. Deacon Pol remained.\par
"Are you planning to marry that woman?"\par
Deem was shocked.\par
"The custom at the Ranch, which neither of you can be expected to know is that when you come to a wedding rehearsal and you are single, and you come with a single woman, that is what people will think.  I strongly suggest you do not do that again. And that you not walk with her again tonight.  Unless..."\par
"Am I in trouble?  Or just embarrassed?"\par
"It is simply a breach of etiquette, something a pastor can ill afford, with all due respect, sir. One reason you will never find an elder here alone is so people will not talk.  Rumor gives birth to scandal.  I resepctfully and strongly recommend you find yourself a confidential assistant. For an example: Deacon Pol is an excellent one."\par
"Thank you," said Deacon Pol.\par
'The bishop has made the same recommendation.'\par
'He is wise.  It is not easy to find someone with the necessary discretion. Now, let us meet the bride and groom."\par
Lois was elated, delighted, pleased, a giggling bride if ever there was one. She and her bridesmaids were in a little clutch, giggling.  The groom was sitting quietly, staring in front of him, with a look approaching terror.  His groomsmen were clearly worried about him.\par
Deem shook hands with both. He had to sort of break the groom's catatonia.  This was the second time he had met them, coming on late to the scene.  Others had done the premarital counseling.  What was their name?  Matteson?\par
There were four round tables set up for five people each  Everyone seemed to be waiting.  Elder Cassell coughed.\par
Deem caught the cue and led them in prayer. Then they took their seats.   Deem found himself sitting with the guitarist and his wife, and their two children.\par
"I don't LIKE potato salad," the ringbearer said, picking at it. \par
 There was steak and a green salad besides the potato salad, and a chocolate cake.  Ever since he had eaten at Pollers, there had been chocolate cake.  \par
After the meal everyone in the wedding party picked up a flashlight from a table, as they might be back after dark. There were a few lanterns as well.  There was no electricity in the chapel.  Part of its charm was when it was candle-lit, Deem was told.  The wait-staff swooped in as they left.\par
Bride and groom leading, parents of the bride, parents of the groom, two bridesmaids, two groomsmen, a guitarist, a soloist, a maid-of honor and her mother (it turned out the guitarist was the father) and a ringbearer, brother to the maid-of-honor, and Deem in the rear, with Elder Cassell and Deacon Pol, exited the fellowship hall from another door.  They took several turns and at long last emerged in the open, with the pond on their left and some newly-built stone houses on their right facing the pond.  The gravel road was remarkably smooth, Deem thought.  He always associated gravel with ruts and potholes, but this was nice.  Birds swooped over the pond, which stretched away to the south. He could see the other side and that it had once been a quarry. Since they had emerged in the open, the chapel had been in sight, with the sun above and behind it, warning of oncoming night. \par
One bridesmaid dropped back and teased Ellen. "So, are you an item? Everyone saw you come in together.  It is as good as announcing your engagement! And I saw how you look at him, and he looks at you!"\par
"We just arrived at the same time, that is all."\par
"Of course. Such a catch. A pastor."\par
"He has the funeral tomorrow, and he was leaving Pollers' when I was. That is all."\par
"Of course. Maybe yours will be the next wedding," and the bridesmaid ran back up to be next to the other bridesmaid. They whispered and giggled all the way to the chapel.\par
It was a pleasant walk, and there were more graves than Deem would have expected off to the right. On the left was the pond, and he could indeed see for miles: flat, featureless land, broken by a few treelines along watercourses.  There was still evidence of the prairie fire close to them, but further away the land had been spared, and there were no dead trees and charred stumps.  He could see what the Ranch people called the Colony, or West, which was a village of Ranch people who felt the Ranch was overpopulated, and had built their own town over there.  He understood they had a number of chicken houses, which was where Ranch chicken came from, and were building up a number of pigs, thinking about future pork production. Eppers liked small towns, and anything over about 200 people was large.  There was talk of planting another colony somewhere else inside the Ranch.  There was plenty of land.  Mark and Lois were hoping to go there, probably to the southwest, maybe three miles south of the ravine that used to be Snake Woods.  Mark was fully trained as a stone mason and stone layer.  They had high hopes for their future together, and out in the open Mark had recovered to a semi-cheerful resignation that he would be married.\par
The chapel was dry-laid stone,  with large openings where most chapels would have stained glass windows.  It had a Roman-arched roof with beams running between the two side walls , and up in the back was a small balcony.  There were no pews and only a few benches in the back as a concession to the elderly.  Deem reflected that many Epper churches had no pews, and that some regarded them as an impediment to worship.\par
Ellen found the small spiral staircase that led up to the balcony.  She took a broom up it first, because of the spiderwebs that seemed to be all over the stairs. No one had been here in some time. Deem put on his stole, to show that he was now being official, and there was a shriek from the balcony and a frantic banging of the broom.\par
"It is alright," Ellen called down, laughing,"Bats. I think they are gone."\par
"We scrubbed this place like mad today.  I am sorry about the bats. And the spiderwebs. I guess they think the place is theirs," one of the bridesmaids apologized.\par
There was some discussion.  It was decided that tomorrow, in more light, the bats could be left alone during the wedding.  The groom liked the idea of bats in the balconey. \par
"I never sang with bats before.  But it will be ok." And that was that; they proceeded with the rehearsal.\par
 \par
\par
After the funeral there was a scramble.  They had less than an hour to turn the little chapel into a wedding haul. The funeral party went out one door to the graveside service, and a number of people who had been quietly waiting slipped in and began redecorating rapidly. The funeral party would studiously avoid looking at the chapel on their return.\par
On the way back to the Warren, Uncle Matt came up to Deem.\par
"I am touched by the old Epper prayers, they make one want to believe.  I was surprised I can still understand them.  They bring back things I have long forgotten, things that were of value. Those who wrote them had a strong faith without doubt.  It would be nice to go through life without doubt."\par
"Someday perhaps you can follow through on that desire," Deem replied.\par
 "You are in on the business."  \par
"Sales and Support, and the Boss is good." Deem sensed something in Matt. "Perhaps you are afraid of something?"\par
  "I think you are the sort of person I can talk about that.  Perhaps I am afraid, maybe of what it would mean, the demands that Nazarene would make of me. I have done well running my own life."\par
 "Have you?"\par
Matt was silent.  Deem saw that that was enough on that for the moment.\par
At the Warren Deem stayed long enough to shake hands.  He had a wedding to tend to, so he had to leave. He was confident he could find the way back to the ChapelWould there be a repetition of the previous evening, with her showing up as he walked by?\par
Almost.  She was some thirty feet ahead of him, in a different dress.  He said nothing and followed her. He figured she could make sure he didn't get lost if he followed her. And there would be nothing unseemly.\par
People talk. Ellen was tired of people talking. Gossip, that is what it was.  Who cared? She had been gossiped about and talked about and hopefully she was dead to all that, dead to the world, alive to Christ and to nothing else. She walked on.  She knew the footsteps behind her, crunching on the gravel.  It could only be - she turned and looked. Now it would be rude not to wait for him. It would be rude not to smile.\par
Deem saw her stop and turn around. She smiled at him. Incarnate grace, that is what it was. There was physical beauty but there was a consecration, a holiness, a love. This is what Dante saw in Beatrice, this is what the Catholics think of as Mary as a channel of grace, this is beauty incarnate, unblemished innocence regained and renewed, purity of womanhood. \par
He was the pastor. He was in the place of the pastor here, and this was a woman of the congregation.  That meant she was off limits.  But no, he was visiting here, he was a guest pastor.  She was not in his congregation.  But then Matt Poller had suggested he wait. Wait for what?  Deem decided he needed to be direct.  If they went and made him pastor at the Ranch AND in town, he could not marry her. He needed to act. He needed to act soon. Or he would have to tell her to leave, because he wanted to marry her. But he didn't know her. But she was the right one, the only one, and he thought she felt the same way.\par
"Are you ill, Pastor Futz?" she asked.  He had a very strange look on his face.\par
"Never better, thank you." They walked in silence, the gravel loud.  The dogs were all off somewhere, so it was just them. The Ranch was strangely quiet. The empty universe stretched out with them at its center.\par
"I think it is a high and noble thing for a man to become a pastor. Your parents must be very proud."\par
"Actually, no.  They hate the idea that I am a pastor.  They would much rather I waited tables or stocked shelves or something. They don't think I have what it takes, but they don't know." He was surprised at his brutal honesty.  What else was he going to say?\par
"Oh," she said. "I guess it takes a lot."\par
"Yes, yes it does." What a lame thing to say.\par
"Yes," she agreed, and she could not think of anything else to say.\par
"When you are done with your being a \i jongedamme \i0 -"\par
"Oh, that seems like so far off!"\par
"I imagine it is hard, hard work."\par
"It is.  Mainly work on my humility.  To become a lowly handmaid after being great in the eyes of the Christian world is a real comedown, sometimes.  It is better than being a jailbird, so actually my lot in life has improved."\par
"Do you have plans afterwards, I mean when you are done?"\par
"Maybe get my G.E.D. - I never graduated from high school - Mother had me on the Road - and then maybe college. They had a program in the prison, but I didn't go. I think I was too depressed.  If the right man comes along, of course, I would like to get married."\par
"Well, I hope the right man comes along. And that you can go to college some day. What would you study?" Am I the right man, he was wondering.\par
"I don't know. Music, maybe.  Did you know I can't read music?" I think you are the right man, she was thinking, but was hoping it did not show.\par
"Really?"\par
"I can read a few notes, but anything beyond a few simple chords and rests is beyond me. I did it all off the cuff."\par
"Wow."\par
"Please, let's not discuss that, if you don't mind. I thought all Epper pastors were married."\par
"You are probably the hundredth person to make that observation since I got here."\par
"Sorry!"\par
"Not at all. It means my answer is polished."\par
"Oh!"\par
"I had a girl friend, but she broke it off when I told her God was leading me to seminary. Sarah was a godly Christian woman.  I hope she finds a happy life and that God blesses her. But there has been no one since." Until recently, he told himself.\par
Well, that leaves me out, she thought."So are you planning to get married? I mean, people seem to be keen on us as a couple, so we might as well talk about it." Since she was left out, it was safe.\par
His eyes widened. "I can marry. I just can't marry a woman in the congregation I am pastor of."\par
"So you can't marry anyone at the church in Nicholls."\par
"Exactly."\par
"But you could marry someone at the Ranch?"\par
"Not if I became pastor here. You would have to leave first." You. He said You.\par
"Excuse me?" she said. He said 'You.'  \par
"Speaking generically." He spoke quickly,"Any woman I married would have to leave before I could ask her to enter into a serious relationship. A courting relationship. I do not wish to be presumptuous towards you by singling you out with my use of 'you'. A thousand pardons."\par
"Pardoned," she smiled, and meant it. "Not that you needed a pardon. I did not take it , I did not take it, I mean, there is nothing to pardon."\par
"You are right, though, that there is a lot of talk about us as a couple."\par
"There is."\par
"Let's discuss this  later.  We have a wedding to do."  They walked on in silence. \par
\par
At the reception Deem found Elder Cassell. "You asked me yesterday if I intend to marry that woman. The answer is yes.  Is there anyone I need to ask before I can court her?"\par
 Elder Cassel hesitated before answering,"No.  There is no one you need to ask.  We are not micromanagers. And this is a good time for you. If you became pastor here, you could not begin to court a woman from the Ranch. If you are already courting her, there is no problem.  I was wondering when you were going to get around to this.  It just seems so clear. On the other hand, you do need to consider the situation."  Deem waited for him to go on, hopefully to elaborate. But he was silent.\par
Helen was at the cake table and had just picked up a plate of cake when she saw Deem walking purposefully towards her\par
"You sang well."\par
"You did a nice wedding. You should do that, maybe for a living."\par
He smiled.  "I don't want to do it alone.  Permit me to tell you that I would like to court you."\par
She nailed his shoe and pant-leg with her dropped piece of wedding cake, which, forgotten, fell off the plate in her surprise.  \par
"Oh," she said. There was a mixture of surprise and joy and embarrassment on her face.\par
"Pastor Futz!" it was a Relative, a large and loud female Relative. "Such a moving sermon on marriage! Such a beautiful service! And you, angel, you sing like an angel! Now tell me, are you the pastor here? I am Lois's cousin, here now and leaving tomorrow. Such a beautiful service! That chapel, it is magnificent!"\par
"Well, I am the provisional pastor in Nicholls. I am just here for this wedding." He looked in Helen's direction, which was blocked by the Relative.  He spoke politely to the Relative for a minute and excused himself.\par
Where was Helen?  He looked around. She was speaking to someone, and then he was caught by another Relative.  He knew she could not stay long because she had to get back to her life as a \i jongedamme\i0 . After the next conversation she was nowhere to be found, and he was one of the last to leave, as it seemed everyone wanted to talk to him.  That, he thought, was a good thing for a pastor. He even met the 'wait-staff', who were friends of the bride and groom and regarded it as a joy and honor to serve them.\par
Alone, he walked back to the Warren, partly because it was one of the few places he knew, and his car was near it, and he was also hoping to see her and talk to her. She had not given him an answer of any kind. But there had been no time, either.\par
"Hello, Pastor Futz!" He looked around but saw no one.\par
"Up here." \par
It was Jeremiah Poller, walking along the roofs of the trailers, watching his footing.\par
"What are you doing up there?"\par
"You can see more. Isaiah is too heavy, so he can't get on the trailers anymore. But nobody told me I couldn't."\par
"I see. Do you know where I parked my car?"\par
"I see some cars from here," Jeremiah admitted after a minute. "How come you don't know where you parked?"\par
"Well, I know where I parked, but I don't know where I am."\par
"I know where you are but I don't know where your car is. Kind of the opposite."\par
"I think I will just go to the Warren. Your father knows where I parked."\par
"You took the wrong turn back there.  This leads to the greenhouses. And I don't know that you want to talk to Papa right now."\par
"Why not?"\par
"' Cuz of what you said to Ellen. Papa is not happy. But the Warren is this way."\par
Deem thought about this for a moment. What had gone wrong? They walked in silence, Deem on the ground, Jeremiah parrelling him on the roofs of the trailers.\par
"Jeremiah, get down and go inside," Matt Poller suddenly said, in a voice not to be disobeyed.\par
"Yes, Papa."\par
Matt Poller was larger outside than inside the trailer, somehow, and he towered over Deem, although he did not come near him. Deem thought he was controlling his anger.\par
"I thought I counseled you to wait. What does you mean by coming out to the Ranch and thinking you can have your pick of the women? She is my \i jongedame\i0 , under my protection, and I expected you to respect that.  Granted, she is older than most jongedammen and neither of you is from the Ranch, but still I expected you to show some respect, some discernment, some courtesy. It would not bother me if a layman did this as much as a man in the role of a pastor did this.  I would have expected a head's up."\par
"I apologize for breaking Ranch etiquette."\par
Matt nodded and relaxed.\par
"It is possible we have become insulated from the world outside.  It has gone its way and we ours. It would not be such a big deal if you were not in the office of pastor."\par
"When was the last time there was a pastor here?"\par
Matt Poller thought a minute. "It was before my time - Peter Muis attempted to be the pastor - before then, it was Jake Profim.  No one on the Council of Twelve holds himself worthy of being a pastor.  I am afraid you are on a rather high pedestal."\par
"I am only a man. No pastor is superhuman."\par
"Some here look at Jake Profim as superhuman, the ideal pastor."\par
"From what I have heard, he was. How can I meet that standard?"\par
"You can't.  But you being a pastor, a lot of people will be upset at this breach of etiquette. You are supposed to be practically infallible. As pastor, you are the Lord's Anointed."\par
"Well, that is one thing I can teach this Ranch, I suppose. I'm not."\par
"I think you will discover many at the Ranch will take this very badly. We have people who will take it as a Sign from God that you are not the one, that the Ranch should not join with the Eppers until the truly anointed one comes. Doesn't the bishop anoint a pastor?"\par
"He does, at ordination, but as you know, I am not yet ordained. So...I cannot yet be the Anointed One."\par
Matt nodded. "I am not one of the crazies who lives out here. Let me rephrase that, I grew up elsewhere. I did not grow up here.  But there are a lot of second generation Ranch people who have a certain mindset.  You bring up a good point - you have not yet been ordained. I think that will be some protection."\par
"Protection?"\par
"Sometimes the church, that organ of grace, destroys people for messing up. I will back you up.  For one thing, I like you, and for another, I think this would be a good match, between you and me.  But then Kati and I had an arranged marriage. I will go in a minute and catch Elder Cassell, if I can, before the talk goes wild."\par
"Tell me please. She did not answer me."\par
Matt looked at him. "I will not return a response to you from her, or even comment on it. That is between you two. You are adults. I think of Romans 8:28 'All things work for those who love the Lord, who are called according to His purpose.' Let that be enough of an answer. Good day, Pastor Futz."  And he left Deem standing here thinking about such a cryptic response. True, actually valuable, but cryptic. \par
 Deem wished he had asked if Matt knew where he had parked. Probably Romans 8:28 was enough of an answer.  Boomer got up and began following him, sniffing at his leg.  There was still frosting and cake crumbs: he had forgotten about it.  Deem saw part of the fence around the bull pasture between the trailers and headed that way.  He walked over to Melanos' pen and looked at the bull.  He was followed by a licking Boomer.  The dogs under the canopy saw Boomer and bounded over, and Deem was surrounded by them.  Deem looked at the big bull  that slowly got up and shambled over, wondering what was going on.  "Easy there, easy," Deem said, as the bull looked through the fence at him.  Deem was not sure the fence was really strong enough. This was the nearest he had ever been to Melanos. "I am just a man,Melanos," he told the bull. "What a miserable situation.  The fishbowl pastors live in. Hard enough just being human without the gold-plating expected."  Deem looked south into the prairie, then west at the end of the first greenhouse.  Where were the people? There was his car, and the dogs had cleaned his pants leg, although dry-cleaning would probably be required to get the doggy smell off. What a life.\par
\par
"I don't know.  Any answer I give will be the final one, I am afraid, whether yes, no, maybe or wait." Ellen was at Mrs. Hook's, who was listening with a sympathetic ear.\par
"You said this is too fast."\par
"Yes. I said that. I said I am not ready to court."\par
"Courting is not marriage.  Among the Eppers arranged marriages used to the sole method, and you did not know the name of the man until you met him at the altar."\par
"Sounds hideous."\par
"To us.  I am not sure marrying on the basis of affection is any better. Feelings can be fickle."\par
"Oh, yes.  Mine are all over the place. If I look at one, it has fled and there is another in its place!"\par
"Which is exactly why you came to talk to me."\par
"Yes. I said that."\par
"Do you have any objections to being courted?" \par
"I am not ready."\par
"Anything wrong with him? Has he been too forward? Rude? Childish?"\par
"Oh no, he is the perfect gentleman.  He seems, I mean he seems too good to be true. But I hardly know him.  I need time."\par
"Then let that be your response to him.  That you need time."\par
"Do I? I mean, I would love to be courted by him."\par
"Then tell him yes, you want him to court you."\par
"But if it goes badly? What if I chicken out and turn on him at the last minute? Or I say yes and then all these feelings of what a fool I am rise up in me?"\par
"You can't go on feelings."\par
"No, I can't. But I don't want to talk to him because I might give the wrong answer. I might say no when I mean yes, or yes when I mean no, or wait when I mean it is about time. If I say yes I may burst into tears out of fear, if I say no I may burst into tears at missing such a great guy."\par
"I think you need to give him an answer.  People will draw the wrong conclusion, I can just about guarantee that.  Some here are experts at that.  Gossip is always the enemy to trust.  I would be willing to give him a message from you. You could even give me an answer and I will wait three days or something until you are sure of it."\par
"Oh no.  I am afraid to send him a message through someone else.  I should do that myself. How adult would it be to be passing messages? Once we started would it ever end? No, I will have to tell him myself, when I am ready to. I fear sending the wrong one and it could never be returned.  Better to send a message when I am ready.  If he is the right one he will wait."\par
"It would be far better if you answered him now. Usually I hesitate to be so direct, but you could needlessly hurt him, and the Ranch, with an undeserved silence."\par
"I am so weak."\highlight1\par
\highlight0 "And he is also a man, not superman.  He, too, has weaknesses.  I think it took considerable courage for him to approach you.  Silence will be interpreted as a no."\par
"Really?"\par
"Yes.  Imagine if your positions were reversed.  How would you take it?"\par
"I see.  So I need to answer him.  I will answer him next time I see him.  He comes to the Ranch quite often."\par
"And what will your answer be?"\par
"I need to wait.  I cannot court him now, but there will be a time when..  That will be my answer."\par
"When what?  How do you think he could possibly receive that answer?"\par
"Oh, you are pressing me.  That's your job, I know.  Ok. God help me, it is yes. But I must tell him myself.  This is between you and me, ok?"\par
"My lips are sealed."\par
  \par
 \highlight2\par
\highlight0 "You boys go outside and show Richard the Ranch," they were told. So Richard and Isaiah and Jeremiah went out.\par
"I don't want to see your stinking Ranch," Richard told them.\par
"Why not?"\par
"Bo-ring." Richard took out his phone and looked at it.  Isaiah had to step back, because Richard was holding it in his face. "Full of re-tards."\par
"I think it is nice," Isaiah returned.  Jeremiah was quiet, but a little worried looking. He rubbed his upper arm on the outside, like he had banged it on something and it hurt.\par
"So what do you want to do?"\par
"I can take you both on," Richard said, and he pushed Jeremiah hard. Jeremiah turned, angry, but Richard was twelve to his six.\par
"Hey," said Isaiah," stop it."\par
"I don't take stuff from little kids," Richard sneered, and he tried to push Isaiah.  But Isaiah was too quick for him. He ducked under Richard's arms, grabbed one and pulled him on his own back, then Richard's momentum carried him over Isaiah. Richard fell hard on his back.\par
"You little -" Richard was furious. He got up and swung at Isaiah. But Richard was out of shape. Isaiah was not.\par
Again Isaiah ducked under his fist and this time picked up Richard by the belt.  Isaiah hefted things all the time that were heavier, so Richard's feet went up in the air and this time he landed on his stomach. Hard.\par
"If you start something, you are supposed to finish it," said Isaiah,"Now get up. I am going to teach you some manners."\par
Richard got up, slowly.  "You can't teach me anything," he said. He pulled his hands in and stood defensively.  Isaiah looked at him. "I can teach you a lot."\par
"Try it, Mr. Big Mouth. I am a lot bigger than you are, little brat."\par
Richard was used to bullying kids smaller than he was, and was unsure now about this cousin of his.  \par
Isaiah was fast.  Before Richard could react Isaiah stepped up and punched him in the nose. It stung, and blood started running down his lip and chin, onto the ground.\par
"You have been rude since you got here, Richard. Apologize."\par
"For what?"\par
"That was a warning."\par
Richard backed up, turned and ran inside.\par
"Isaiah and Jeremiah are beating up on me," he yelled."And Isaiah had a big kid come along and jump me!"\par
Papa was all in favor of Isaiah and Richard settling it.  He didn't believe there was a big kid involved.\par
But Richard's father said it was a disgrace.  They would be staying in Harrisonville and leaving as soon as possible.  With that, they left. \par
\par
"This is a letter from their Council of Twelve." John slid it across the table to Deem. The other elders were also frowning. Deem read it silently while they watched... What does he mean by coming out to the Ranch and thinking he can have his pick of the women? ...Arrogance of the denomination over the people of God.... He has set back the Ranch from rejoining the Epper denom with this stunt..Elder Cassell and Matt Poller both told him to wait... disrespect...She is delicate emotionally....He should have known....Does he have emotional control...self control....things were promising, now, people don't know what to think, and what they are thinking is not good..."\par
Deem looked around.  This was so unlike everything he had heard of the Ranch, everything he knew about it, everything he had experienced. He had not  heard it that way from Elder Cassell, and he had forgotten the conversation with Matt Poller because of other things.  This was over-the-top, ridiculous.  \par
They told him he should have heard it correctly, and he should not have forgotten. This was not a good situation.  The bishop  called John and asked him to copy the letter and take it to him. The Ranch Council had actually called his office.  \par
"We are in agreement - that is, we six and their twelve - that you should have at least mentioned it in passing, better yet, discussed it with us, that you intended to court her. Court anyone. But her, especially.  She is the \i jongdamme\i0  of one of the most influential people over there. He is feeling protective, and in fact the whole Ranch is protective. I have heard they are sometimes prone to emotional excesses."\par
Deem looked around. "Did any of you discuss it with the Session when you decided to court someone?"\par
"No. But none of us was a pastor, not even an elder, when we courted. It was long ago."\par
"So the main thing is that the situation is unusual?"\par
"Well, yes,"John replied,  We do not intend to tell you who to marry or who not to marry. Neither does the Council of Twelve.  They are not objecting to what you have done, only how you have done it.  Ranch-denomination relations are a concern all the way up to the archbishop and the college of elders; we have been working at bringing them back into the fold, you are made liaison, and now this happens.  I think it fair to warn you you are making a name for yourself and it is not a good one. The most delicate of diplomatic situations, and some feel you have taken a sledgehammer to it."\par
"We are wondering about the confidence we placed in you,"Dennis continued for John, "and what with the rumors about you and the way you handled the Decorating Committee, it is somewhat less, and now this."\par
"Let me say this,"Deem objected,"I think this is an overreaction to a non-event. I said I would LIKE to court her. That is it. Beyond that, I am afraid I may get defensive about this more than I should."  He thought to himself that life was not fair.  If life was fair we would all be dead.  He would rather have mercy than justice.  So he chose to not be defensive. What he had said just now was defensive enough. \par
"What do you want me to do?"\par
"For one thing, don't go back to the Ranch alone.  And keep meeting with their Council and key people.  Whatever you do, don't approach Ellen.  I am not saying avoid her or don't talk to her, but let her come to you, in her time, with her answer."  \par
"That would be good advice for any guy, not to pester the girl."\par
"Well, yes.  You go out there often enough that you are bound to run into her."\par
Saturday evening the six elders drove to the bishop's residence with the letter but without Deem.  Deem walked back to his apartment, thinking about things. He was several blocks away when he heard a groaning sound from ahead.  There was a man lying half in and out of the ditch.  His face looked like he had been beaten and he was unconcious but alive. No one he knew lived on this street.\par
"Hey," Deem said, and tugged at his shirt. No response. \par
Deem went up to the door of the nearest house and knocked on it. It was Saturday evening, getting late, and the lights were on only deeper in the house.\par
After a minute there were footsteps. "Who's there," someone demanded.\par
"Deem Futz, the pastor. Nicholls Epper Church."\par
"You are a little late to be going door to door like those Baptists used to. Go away."\par
"There is a man in the ditch in front of your house. He's been beaten."\par
There was a pause. "Give me a minute." The door opened to a man in his bathrobe carrying a rifle. He looked around. "Where?"\par
Deem showed him where. Rifle in hand, the houseowner went out to the ditch. He looked both ways and bent down and peered at the man.\par
"Beaten, all right.  I'll call the police."\par
Deem rode in the ambulance to the hospital, only three blocks away.\par
"Are you kinfolk?"\par
"No. I was just walking when I found him in the ditch." Time, location, details, the cops wanted to know everything.  Deem was taken back and made to show where the man had been, again, even though the police had taken pictures. These were Nicholls cops, humorless men in a tough town, actually part of the County Sherriff's office if you insisted, but they knew their business.  Deem had to tell his story twice more, once to a cop and once to a detective.\par
"Is he going to be ok?" Deem asked back at the emergency room.\par
"Yeah, just one more barfly who got in a fight. And got dumped out in a ditch.  Happens all the time." \par
Sunday morning Deem dressed and opened his apartment door. The man from last night was sitting  against the wall in the  hall, properly bandaged, now sober.\par
"Good morning," Deem said,"I hope you are better."\par
"I am, thanks.  I got no place to go."\par
Deem looked at him. He was in his forties.  They had given him clean clothes at the hospital and cleaned him up. He was medium in height and weight, and there was a bandage on the top of his bald head that looked almost like a skullcap.\par
"Well, I am on my way to church."\par
"That is what I figured. Can I come with you? I think you save my life."\par
Deem was surprised. "Sure," he said, wondering what the reaction would be. "What is your name?"\par
"They call me Skittles. The rest isn't important."\par
"Ok." Deem decided to leave the car home.  They could walk and he might learn more about this man.\par
"Do you remember what happened? How did you wind up in a ditch?"\par
"Me and my buddies were drinking.  That is the last I knew. I figure they beat me and threw me out of the car. That is what the Sherriff said it looked like. They beat me somewhere else and then threw me out in the city. It's not the first time that has happened to me."\par
"I would say you need some new friends."\par
"Oh, no. They are my buddies." The man nodded.\par
"Sure could use some food," he added.\par
"We have donuts and coffee at the church," Deem told him.\par
"Well, I'm in  then. I am now a member."\par
"It's not that simple."\par
"You tell me what to do and there I go. But none of that religious stuff, ok?"\par
"What do you mean, none of that religious stuff?"\par
"You know, robes and incense and chanting and bowing down. I can't stand that. I ain't gonna wear a a stinking robe."\par
"You don't have to wear a robe."\par
"That's good.  Does your wife wear a robe?"\par
"I'm not married. What about you?"\par
"Well, yeah, I got two wives in different states, and now my girlfriend is mad at me for cheating on her."\par
"Really?"\par
"Naw. But I am married, and my girlfriend is made at me for cheating on her."\par
"I see."\par
"I suppose you never cheat on your girlfriend."\par
Both Sarah and Ellen came to his mind. Neither was his girlfriend. One had been, one never would be.\par
"I don't have a girlfriend."\par
"Tell," Skittles said.\par
"What?"\par
"I can tell when someone is lying. It's a tell. You have a girlfriend."\par
"Well, I have a certain young lady in mind, but I would rather not discuss it with you."\par
"Ok, padre. Sorry!"\par
"If we don't wear robes and bow down and wave incense around, what DO we do at this church of yours?"\par
"We have Divine Service. There is singing, and responsive readings, and prayers. And a sermon. And Communion.  I will have to ask you not to take it, though, because there is a lot to it that I think you are not ready for."\par
"So I have to wait until I am ready? What is it? Communion? Is that when people eat during the service?"\par
"I can't explain it now. But yes, we eat and drink. It is bread and wine. It is also Christ's Body and Blood."\par
"It's both, huh.  I like wine.  But donuts are better than bread. I never drink no blood. Freaky. I want to see that.  That is like the Catholics, huh?  Freaking cannibals, is that what you are?"\par
"How about you get coffee and a donut and just sit in the back and watch and maybe it will be clear to you?"\par
"Ok, pastor.  Do you do an altar call? At the Baptist church they used to do altar calls all the time. I liked that. The service wouldn't end until somebody bit the bullet and went up and got saved."\par
"No we don't."\par
"Skittles!" Kitten and Marigold met them as they walked.\par
"Kitten. Mrs.P. Good to see you again."\par
"I am very surprised to see you here."\par
"I am going to church this morning. Your pastor has been talking to me."\par
Kitten looked at both of them with surprise. "That is remarkable."\par
"Obviously you know each other," Deem said.\par
"Nicholls is a small town," said Kitten, staring at Skittles.  Skittles did not meet his eyes or answer.  He muttered an expletive in a direction none of them wass in.\par
"Well, shall we proceed?" Deem said after a silence.\par
"How about if you and me drop back for a minute", said Kitten.  Both Skittles and Marigold decided to wait.  Kitten and Deem walked a some feet back. Was this about Kitten's history with Skittles? No. "As you know we met with the bishop. His only comment is that the denomination will be sending you a confidential assistant out from Michigan, a semi-retired pastor with forty years experience. He should be here within a week. And don't worry about our discussion yesterday. The bishop thinks it is not worth pursuing - he thinks you are correct, as a matter of fact."\par
"Do you know who this man is?"\line "No, no one asked. I guess you will find out."\par
"Anything else?"\par
"Nope."\par
"Ok, let's go."\par
Skittles seemed to know everyone, and everyone was surprised that he was there. He went straight for the donuts and picked up one covered with sugar dust.\par
"Oh, Skittles," said Mrs. Jellicoe, "How nice of you to-" But he had rammed the whole donut in his mouth. Another went into a pocket. And he turned away from her and poured himself coffee. "- Come this morning," she smiled.\par
He stood looking at her, chewing, with a fresh donut in his hand. "I got whupped again last night," he told her. "Left in a #*&%#!!  ditch by my %@*&^!! buddies."\par
"You need to get some new buddies."\par
"That is what Father says. You call him Father, right?"\par
"No, we don't.  We call him Pastor Futz.'\par
'You call him Pastor Futz? What the #$@# kind of a *&%)!! name is that?"\par
She didn't blink.  Her smile sort of froze. \par
"Skittles!" a short swarthy looking man about the same age came up to him.\par
"Hey, Corny! Didn't know you frequented this establishment! Looks like they have some fine ladies here!" Corny, better known as Juan de la Coru\'f1a, frowned.  Mrs. Jellicoe retreated.\par
"Skittles, it is not that kind of place. When was the last time you were in church?"\par
"I don't believe I have had the  %^&%#!! pleasure."\par
"You come with me, man, and I will help you."\par
"Do you sit in the back? Pastor Fuzz told me to sit in the back."\par
"Futz. Pastor Futz. Not Fuzz. How come you are here?"\par
"I am going to church. Pastor Futz saved me."\par
"That is great. Now you are trusting Jesus for your salvation. Life will be better. Not easier, maybe, but better."\par
"Well, I don't know about Jesus but Pastor Futz saved me."\par
"Pastor Futz works for Jesus. Jesus sent him to save you. I work for him, too."\par
"Well, I guess if he is good enough for you and good enough for Pastor Futz, I guess he is alright. Mighty kind of Jesus to send him. I would be dead by now if it weren't for him."\par
"Jesus is interested in making everyone alive."\par
"Sounds good. Do you raise people from the dead during church? Rob graves, bring in the bodies, kaboom and they are alive again?"\par
"Not physically but spiritually.  Sometimes people get healed."\par
"That is cool."  Then they went into the sanctuary, or rather the chapel.  They were meeting in the chapel of the funeral home.\par
Deem overheard all of this, as it was loud, even as he went down the hall and into the preparation room. There he put on his stole, a green ribbon about a foot wide made of silk with a pattern of crosses in white.  As a provisional pastor he wore it over his left shoulder and tied it loosely it over his right hip over his suit.  He looked in the mirror and sighed. Nothing compelling there.  He thought of Ellen briefly and wondered what she was wearing, and decided, in all likelihood, she was dressed in the drab outfit of the \i jongedamme\i0 .  He had learned there was an equivalent program for the young men, in which they would work as an apprentice, so it wasn't just the women they treated like this.  He took out a small scroll with brass ends that was tied with a gold ribbon.  This contained the authorization from the bishop that he, Deem, was authorized to lead the faithful in the liturgy and perform the sacraments.\par
The chapel was quiet, except for the voice of Skittles, commenting on various things in exceedingly obscene and vivid language. Juan was trying to explain to him that they needed to be quiet.  Skittles went and got another donut and noisily returned.\par
"Enter His gates with thanksgiving - " intoned Elder Mark.\par
"And His courts with praise," the people responded. Deem's cue. He entered to place the scroll on the altar, now a familiar part of the week. But what was this? There was a casket front and center, right in the way of everything.  Obviously there would be a funeral later that day.  Funerals had happened after church, but usually the casket did not arrive until they were gone.  This would throw them off the routine: he was used to moving through there, and other people were, at different times in ther service. \par
This was a place in the liturgy, when he came out, to say a few things. He welcomed them; they would have to work around the casket, which was in the way.  They would not move it; it was a good reminder that all of us are mortal and we go meet our maker. They would get along with the service and have as normal a service as possible, making the best of it. There were also floral arrangements they would have to work around, as well as the dead man's picture.\par
"Raise the dead man," Skittles said loudly from the back."Go ahead. Juan told me Jesus raises LOTS of people. You got Jesus, you got resurrection. Or are you some kind of #$%-faced cowardly little son of a (&$^@(@!!! ? That is what we are here for, to see Jesus raise the DEAD! What are you waiting for?"\par
Deem shook his head at the ushers, who were getting ready to grab Skittles and throw him out. Deem's mind was blank. Everyone was staring at him, especially Skittles. Deem really wanted to see Skittles saved. If Jesus was willing-\par
Deem felt like he was standing outside himself, watching himself. He told them that he did not know if Jesus would raise the man today, but He was capable of it. If Jesus decided to do it, it was His power at work and nothing in Deem. It would not be for sensationalism but the free choice of God, to glorify Him and to make Him known.\par
Deem watched himself turn to the coffin. He raised his hands and said in the silence, "In the name of Jesus Christ, be raised from the dead."  Standing, watching, Deem felt utterly ridiculous.  Nothing happened.  Skittles snorted and declared loudly that he guessed it was all a fake. Makes you feel good, but that was all.\par
Deem nodded to Mark. "Number Six in the hymnal," and they began singing "Fairest Lord Jesus". They sang loudly, loud enough to drown out Skittles, who finally joined in during verse 3.  He actually had a fair voice.\par
During the third hymn there was a knocking sound from somewhere, but because of the singing Deem could not place it.  Probably the pipes downstairs, he figured, as the best explanation.  He had managed to forget the whole embarrassing episode about praying for the dead man.\par
He came and stood right in front of the casket, facing the congregation, to lead them in prayer. There was the knocking sound - a faint sound. A scratching. From the casket. "Somebody help me," Deem clearly heard.  He wasn't the only one - others were looking at him and at the casket, alternately. In the protocol, in the liturgy, lay safety: suddenly he loved the security of routine, of always knowing what would happen next. Sanity and security, the well-planned life without interruptions, that was what he wanted. \par
It was not given to him. He had no choice but to turn and he discovered the coffin lid was very heavy. He had hoped, crazily, for a peek and then he could slam the lid down and life would go back to normal. He called a few men over.\par
"We need to find out what is going on here," he explained.  Some people in the congregation were actually angry.  They expected things out of church, and one was the comfort of the familiar liturgy, without unexpected things going on.  It was clear they would never come back. They would write the bishop, the archbishop if necessary, and these antics would stop.\par
They managed to raise the lid. The man inside was pushing against it from the inside. He sat up and climbed out. \par
"Where is my wife," he demanded,"I told her the ladder was safe, and she did not believe me. I'll set her to rights, I will."  Someone ran out to find her.  He had lived in Nicholls and was known to most of the congregation, many of whom were planning to attend the funeral later. \par
"It's John! John Bread! He died Friday and here he is!" People screamed. People gasped. Jaws dropped. A few people ran out. No one was quite prepared for this, no one responded in a manner that made a whole lot of sense.\par
"You are interrupting our service," Ingrid Olsen scolded him,"This is our church service you are interrupting!"\par
"Well, excuse me," said John Bread. "Where is my wife? I think I owe her an apology. And I am hungry."  Skittles came forward and gave him one of his donuts, as if this was perfectly natural and part of the Sunday service. \par
Deem managed, somehow, to restore order. He asked  John to stay for the service and then they would talk.  He nodded his head,"Might as well."   Deem found the place in the prayer book and they resumed their morning prayers. Prayer, offering, homily. Communion. All normal, all regular, all as expected. Neither Skittles nor John came forward for Communion. Recessional.\par
"John! John!" it was his tearful wife, pushing through the exiting crowd who made way for her. "Agatha!" he said, and they hugged.  He was in his seventies, as was she.\par
"You died," she said.\par
"Oh, don't make too much of that," he replied."I need to tell you you were right about that ladder."\par
"John Bread, I think that is the first time in your life you have apologized for anything."\par
"Not an apology. You were simply right."\par
"Oh, John."\par
"Well, it takes a lot to get my attention. Speaking of which, it seems I was not ready to go, not yet."\par
"What do you mean, John?"\par
"He sent me back."\par
"Who?"\par
"He said Deem would tell you."\par
"This Deem guy?"\par
And Deem told them the old, old story, about Jesus and His love, and coming down from heaven and dying and rising from the dead.  They talked for a few minutes. \par
"Pastor, I now believe in Jesus Christ. He is Lord.  I would like to be baptized," said John.\par
Lacking normal facilities, Deem took him to the water fountain in the hall.  His wife, the elders and several other people were watching. Deem caught the water under his hand and poured water on John's head. "In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, I baptize you," Deem said, and it was done right and proper.\par
"I think I got it right this time," John said,"Last time I screwed up. I am ready to go now." He was insistent.  He went back into the chapel and put a folding chair against the coffin.\par
"John, I don't that chair-"\par
"Perfectly safe," he said, and he would have fallen if he had not had help. He climbed into his coffin and laid down. Agatha stood, weeping, looking at him. He closed his eyes.\par
Deem was there, standing by Agatha.  John opened his eyes again, "I love you, Agatha," he said.\par
"I think that is the first time in a long time you have said that. I love you, too, you stubborn old coot."\par
"Well, that is enough sentiment." He closed his eyes and laid still.\par
A minute later he opened his eyes. "Well," he said, "I guess there is plenty of time to be dead later." And with some assistance he climbed out of the casket.\par
\par
\line\par
\par
 \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
\highlight1\par
\highlight0\par
}
 