{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9\par
"I guess we should have gotten a guide or someone to meet us at the gate or something." Deem and Aaron were trying to find a particular house, one neither had been to before. One thing the Ranch did not have was street signs.  Another was any sort of order to the buildings: they were numbered, only depending on where you were, the ordering was different. The industrial buildings and facilities had nice designations like Row A and Building 1, but the residences, whether trailer or house, were simply numbered in the order they had been built. or even the last digit of the serial number of the trailer. Some of the stone houses had poetic or Biblical names or names that somehow referred to those who lived in them.  And some of the streets were not streets, but only paved paths too narrow to drive on. They had parked near the old gate and were walking, because there would probably not be anywhere to park.  They might block an emergency vehicle or a delivery truck, and so parking personal vehicles was restricted to the exterior of the building complex. The people who lived there knew where everything was; why renumber everything?\par
"Number 86," Deem muttered, looking at a trailer.  They were looking for number 44, a blue trailer with a Japanese rock garden in front of it.  "Number 53", Aaron responded a minute later.  This was totally unexpected.  They had assumed a sane numbering. But here was "Number 17". There  "Number 4". Then  "37".  They knocked on the door of Number 33, which was a blue trailer. The door was opened by a tall man with waist-length hair and no shirt, his beard taking up most of the lack.  Behind him was a large Keith Green poster on the wall.\par
"Peace, bro," the man said.  He seemed straight out of Jesus People USA.\par
"Peace be with you. Can you tell us where #44 is?"\par
"Are you J-Ws or something?"\par
"Oh, no.  We are here for a meeting."\par
"Well....I don't rightly know....Seems like it should be around here somewhere. I'm not really into the house number thing, seems to be a sign of the universal government, if you ask me. It is a sign of the End times. Maranatha. How would you like to live in #666? Just a joke.  They pulled that trailer in, I head, with that serial number - it's long gone, but a lot of people freaked. People still tell stores. You want me to live where?" The man was becoming animated. at this last part.\par
"It is the residence of Elder Cassell, of the Council of Twelve?"\par
"Oh.  Yeah. Sorry.  That is a blue trailer.  Maybe yellow.  No, I think it is a house. He has a rock garden in front that looks Chinese or something. #44. That is what I've hear. Or a pumpkin patch.  No dog. Or is it #47?"\par
"Can you tell us where it is?"\par
The man thought for a moment. "No, not really.  You will have to ask the Holy Spirit to guide you, I am afraid.  That is how I get around. A lot of that here.  Most people depend directly on God to get around here.  Nothing else helps me, anyway. Did I tell you I used to do acid until Christ turned my life around?"\par
"No, you didn't. But I am afraid-"\par
"He heals all sickness, delivers from all evil, is light to all darkness-"\par
"Please excuse us. We must go to our meeting."\par
"Salvation is more important, don't you know?"\par
"Yes...And our meeting is about salvation.  Pardon us."\par
The man thought about following them, then slammed the door. "Compromised Christians." he said loudly enough that they could hear through the door."Lord, have mercy on them."\par
They decided not to knock on any more doors.  Many seemed to have babies crying behind them, or signs "Baby is sleeping - please do not disturb!" 'Beverly's Blessed Barn of Bairns' must have had triplets, all yelling at the top of their lungs. And a big Doberman on the front stoop that eyed them as they passed.\par
They turned a corner and there was Deacon Pol standing in the alley, looking both directions, looking for them, thinking about trying to find them.\par
"Greetings, brothers!" he said soberly.  Deacon Pol was the sort of Epper that believed that excessive emotionalism betrayed a lack of self-control, and so he would never appear happy or sad, joyful or sorrowful.  Deem could never tell what he was thinking or feeling, something he had learned to be at peace with.  "Elder Cassell is almost ready.  He asks for a favor in that you would wait on an elderly man's bodily weaknesses for a minute, and that you would grant patience towards him.  I shall go tell him you are here.  Please wait here."\par
It was a blue-grey trailer, more grey than blue, with some blue trim and a blue door.  The Japanese rock garden was four wooden barrels cut in half and filled with dirt.  There were some marigolds, peppers and tomato plants growing in them. And the house number was 55, although it was hard to see, being directly behind one of the barrels. "Cassell" a wooden sign said, simply and functionally.\par
Deem smiled and turned to Aaron to say somethin about that, when he gasped.\par
"What are you gasping for?"\par
"That was unexpected."\par
"The trailer and the garden?"\par
"No.  Behind you, in the crossway, there was an incredibly beautiful woman. She crossed the alley and looked this way, then the other, before she crossed. She just seemed to, to-"\par
"To walk. She walked."\par
"Yes. She walked." Aaron was amused by Deem's sudden consternation.\par
"They do that, you know, those women. They walk."\par
"It was the way she walked and looked."\par
"They do that too, you know.  Those women, walking and looking.  Next thing you will tell me is that she walked and looked like a woman does.  She would, you know, being one."\par
"Sorry. I think I am babbling."\par
"I didn't see her.  But I think you do begin to babble. They can be distracting.  Best keep your mind on the business at hand."\par
Deacon Pol opened the door and invited them in.\par
"It is a very great pleasure to meet you again," he said grimly. "I was just thinking," Elder Cassell continued. " 'I urge the young men to control themselves.' said the Apostle. And I say, Anything further is useless. Everyone else gets long lists. But young men? I was one once. I know. The word is gobsmacked." \par
"You have a keen eye, sir. "  Deem felt its piercing power. \par
"Really? The comment was not directed at you. It was meant to be droll, to start a friendly conversation and put us all at ease.   I apologize if it sounded so. I would not think it of you, sir.  Well, that is not the point of our discussion."And they discussed their business. During the discussion the face came, unbidden into his mind. Less than a second.  Purity refined by fire. One knowing love, one known by love. Tender strength, strong tenderness. Utterly feminine. Neither a child nor old. Ageless beauty.  Who was she? Each time he pushed it back down into the depths and paid attention, although it was like holding a balloon underwater. \par
"You should meet some of the people of the Ranch," Elder Cassell said as they wrapped up what was a tedious discussion.\par
"Yes, yes I should." Deem replied.  He resolved to stop and converse with someone on the way out.  Deacon Pol offered to guide them back to their car, which offer they kindly accepted.\par
They were not five feet from the trailer when a man shambled along and leaned against the trailer opposite.  He was unbelievably disgustingly dirty and emaciated. He fixed his eyes on them.\par
"Heard you are the new PASTOR," he said, sticking him hand out.  Deem took it. "Welcome about. I mean aboard. But this is not a ship, now is it?"\par
"No it's not. And you are?"\par
"Now that is a good question. Durned good question.  I forgot. I go by Weed, because Weed ruined me.  Christ will save me, but weed ruined me. I go back and forth."\par
"Weed," said Deacon Pol,"Another time.  These people need to go."\par
"Ok." He released Deem's hand. "Have you seen our fair Ellen? Most beautiful woman in the world, out here at the Ranch."  Deem was surprised he was on this subject.\par
They turned one corner and there was their car.  Weed followed them, telling them about how beautiful Ellen was.  Could it be the same woman? Deem wondered.  \par
Deacon Pol and Weed were still talking when they left.\par
"Curious," Deem said to Aaron,"I actually felt jealous about her."\par
"You don't know that it is the same woman.  And it is possible if you looked at her again, she would not be as you remember her."\par
"True, absolutely true.  I did not say this jealousy was rational.  I am dismayed to find it in me."  \par
They discussed that.\par
"Well, for a change of pace we have a meeting with the elders of the church in Nicholls. I am hoping it will go a lot better than that first meeting."\par
"Yes."\par
"And I need to tell you that I must soon return to the bishop's office.  I think you know your way around, well, it's odd to say that about the trouble we just had trying to find Elder Cassell's house, and my job here is done."\par
Deem's heart sank a little.\par
"As you know, we do things two-by-two as much as practicable.  You need to find a confidential assistant.  Keep your eyes and ears open for a suitable candidate.  As you know this man will be with you on a constant basis.  I will make it a matter of prayer for you."\par
The meeting with the elders was back in the church basement.  Deem was happy to see that their arrival was five minutes ahead of the meeting time.  Several elders surreptitously checked their watches as Deem walked in.\par
After an opening prayer Elder Hopkins pushed a sealed envelope across the table to Deem. There were some papers as well, neatly typed.  Deem's heart leaped his throat.  Elder Hopkins was saying something -  "solemnly charge you in the presence of God and of Jesus Christ and of his chosen angels, to maintain these principles without bias, doing nothing in a spirit of partiality." And the Apostle continues,"Do not lay hands upon anyone too hastily." Thus, in obedience to the apostolic command, it seems wise to us to delay laying hands on you until it seems the time is right.  This seems a just and wise practice in all the churches, and we look forward to the day when we can install you as Pastor. That will be a day of joy and we hope to hasten it.  But in the judgement of this Session, we are asking you to serve as Provisional Pastor of the Evangelical Presbyterian Church of Nicholls, Missouri, of the Western Missouri Diocese and Presbytery, until that day. We do not now ask you to accept the call.  Before you on this table you see letters and a sealed envelope.  The materials that are open are indeed open and public, those in the envelope are sealed.  I will tell you that the envelope contains discussion of benefits and pay, as well as some concerns we the elders have that you should bear in mind before accepting this call, as well as a statement from the entity known as the Ranch, and our response to it."\par
Deem knew to say nothing, as was correct and proper at this time.  Each elder spoke, expressing hope and confidence in him.    After a closing prayer, Aaron shook his hand.\par
"My work here is finished, for now.  I will be seeing you."\par
Deem nodded and said nothing.  His next words would be taken to either accept or reject the call.\par
Kitten drove him back to their house and Deem entered his bedroom.  He shut and locked the door and put the papers on the spare bed carefully, and knelt down and prayed. If anything, he felt the load heavier than before.  He also was in the presence of God.  Very aware of that, he picked up the papers and read them carefully, leaving the envelope for last.  Nothing not known, nothing controversial, just that he was being called as the Provisional Pastor.  There was a form for him to sign and date, and the names of the elders as witnesses, with lines for their signatures, and dates.  He would begin after Sunday's service, when this would be announced, if he accepted.  A statement of current church funds, which was not all that encouraging.  He wondered how they could hope to pay him on that. They were behind on rent and utilities. Savings was depleted and they owed on a "good-will" loan.  They were being floated by the denomination, it looked like, with some support there. Deem knew that would not last.   A list of current members, distressingly small.  A nice letter from someone in the congregation about how he hoped he would be pastor, addressed to the elders and a PS to pass it on to Deem.  He appreciated to encouragement.  A list of people willing to rent out rooms and the addresses for some apartments in Nicholls (very few of those, mainly along Main Street above the shops).\par
Now, the envelope.  Simply a full-sized letter envelope, with his name,  and the address at Kitten's typed on it. Full Zip Code.  As if there was any need....\par
The first piece of paper was a letter from the Bishop, congratulating him on this opportunity.  He was in the Bishop's thoughts and prayers. Nice.\par
The second piece was the details of his renumeration.  The first line made him pause and his stomach almost flipped.\par
\tab\tab Annual Salary*\tab\tab\tab $0.00\par
He had to control his breathing.  He took a deep breath, hurt, exhaled, it hurt less, inhaled, controlled his breathing.  What could be worse than that? This was a volunteer position? Were they telling him he wasn't worth anything? He had thought they were over that. But there it was, in black and white.  Zero.  He forced himself to keep reading.\par
There were details on medical and dental insurance, pension (which contributions would start with installation as full pastor), all of which would be paid by the bishop's office until the church was in a better position.  There were more lines he would read later, but that was better.\par
He followed the asterisk down to the bottom of the page.  There it stated that the Bishop's office would be supplying his salary in the amount of $50,000 per annum until installation as full pastor, and there would be a supplement from Profim Properties, LLC, also known as the Ranch, in the amount of $30,000 per annum, as a gesture of good will toward the church in Nicholls and him in particular, to act as liaison between the bishop and the Ranch as necessary.\par
Following that were prayer requests from the elders for themselves, wives and families, and some members of the congregation.  There were some situations he would need to look into.\par
He should have been absolutely elated, he told himself.  He gave thanks to God.  Of course he would accept. But what was clear in his mind with a razor sharp focus was that he was not the pastor out at the Ranch.  If he had been, he could not  court \ul her\ulnone , whoever she was. This  did not prohibit nor encourage such a relationship.  Who was she? Was she married?  That would be bad. What a wonderful thing is woman. He had not felt like this since breaking up with Sarah.  If she was married, did she have a sister?  Stop it, he told himself. She might be beyond him, a donna gratia, a Beatrice, a vision of loveliness that he could never aspire to match, that he could never  - Stop it, he told himself.\par
He carefully read through everything again, still on his knees.  They were beginning to ache, so he got up and sat on the bed and read through it all again. He looked at the back of everything, just in case.  He prayed through the prayer requests.  He would never have guessed at some of the situations.\par
There had been eye contact for a millisecond, he remembered.  She was friendly, open, honest, but not an innocent child, but someone forgiven who walked in forgiveness and forensic innocence and faith. Someone more healed than hurt, though that was there.  All that in a millisecond. She brought joy into a humdrum world.  She was single. And she liked him, he thought. \par
He sat there for a  while.  Life was good.   \par
\par
 \ul\par
\ulnone\par
}
 