{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green176\blue80;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Deem Futz, the pastoral candidate, had been a disappointment.  It was only with great reluctance that Dennis had agreed to do the interview, and then Deem Futz had been late, and not much to look at or to inspire hope. Dennis told this to God in his nightly prayers and with that he fell asleep.\par
He woke, or thought he did, except that he was standing on a windy ridge.  Before him was a Roman soldier in full armor, facing the southwest.  They were in Nicholls.  The soldier turned and lifted his visor: Dennis was surprised to see it was Deem Futz in there. He lifted his gladius and saluted Dennis, who was dressed only in a linen tunic.  Dennis returned the salute. He was aware that his own arm was pencil-thin in comparison to the heavily muscled arm of the soldier-Deem. The sky was golden or bronze and brought a diffused light everywhere, so there were no shadows, except in the southwest, where there was a dark cloud in the distance.  There was something very wrong about that cloud.\par
They each took one step towards it and they were at the edge of an immense chasm full of darkness. It was so deep and they were there so suddenly that Dennis was shocked at the height, and Deem put his shield out and kept him from falling.  Dennis realized he was walking without his cane, which he had not done in many years.\par
There were steps, or a staircase, cut into the rock face of the cliff, and Deem immediately began descending them with firm tread, not fearing the fall and without any hesitation whatsoever.  Dennis followed him, and they descended into what was smoke. There were black insects buzzing and black bats and what looked like small black winged snakes, but they darted in and out of the smoke so much that Dennis could not tell, and he had to watch his footing.\par
Now they were at the bottom of the cliff, on a level place, and there was a pit ahead of them, like a volcano almost, out of which came tongues of fire and deep rumbling noises. The golden sky was completely obscured above, and the buzzing creatures were coming in and out of the pit.  They came to the edge, and it was even deeper than the chasm they were in, and again there were stairs. Without hesitating Deem began descending these stairs, and the smoke was thick.  Dennis followed him.  There were flashes of flame and lightning come up, and when they came up, Deem would protect both of them with his shield. There was a strong smell of sulphur.\par
They were at the bottom of the stairs, and there was a cavern of deeper darkness ahead, out of which the smoke poured and the flames flickered.  It led steeply down, and the upper half was filled with smoke and the flames, but there was enough room to walk under the smoke and the flame, which was illuminated the cavern.\par
"We don't want to walk by that light," Deem said, and he light a torch, which shine with a white light as he held it up.  The cavern was rough stone and the footing uneven.  The flames seemed to diminish and the white light cut through the smoke.  There were loud noises ahead, down in areas where the light had not yet penetrated, and they seemed to be moving away from the light as Deem and Dennis approached.  Now the noises came from behind them as well, as they walked further down.\par
Gold glinted on either side, and there were books, jewels, medals, crowns, certificates of achievement and recognition, certificates of stocks and bonds, awards, deeds to land and houses.  As they descended they found more: now there were slave girls who called out, eager to do their bidding. Dennis was particularly drawn to one.\par
"Don't even think about it," Deem said sharply, in a voice of command, and from then on Dennis ignored all these temptations. "They are illusion, deception, striving after wind."\par
Here was an immense dragon at the end of the cavern, and from him came the smoke and the flame.\par
"I have eaten many warriors," said the dragon. "Many have come to me, and I have eaten them all: kings, princes, generals, footmen, slaves, merchants, priests, and emperors." He was confident in his strength and cunning. \par
"Eat this, then, worm, and die," Deem said, and he drew his sword.\par
"Not that," said the dragon, "Anything else but that," and he put his head down and slid backwards in the cavern, craven, prone, the picture of weakness and timidity.  Deem advanced, shield up, sword out.  The dragon seemed to shrink up against the rock wall and actually shrink. Soon it was clear he was very much smaller, and he was sliding out of the cavern through a small hole at the bottom.  Then he was gone, and only the hole remained. It was only the size of Dennis's hand. \par
The smoke had cleared and there were no flames.  Neither were there any of the awards, gold, jewels, certificates, slave girls, cars, high-priced hunting rifles, deeds or any of the other temptations.  The cavern was completely empty, except for the form of a beautiful woman, dressed in white.  She was sleeping, and Deem picked her up and slung her over his shoulder somehow, while still holding his sword and shield.  "Go ahead of me," he told Dennis, and Dennis did, with Deem behind him, walking up and backward against the return of the dragon.\par
In five steps they were out of the cavern, and the pit was cleared of smoke and flame and the flying creatures were nowhere to be seen.  And in another five steps they were up the steps in the side of the chasm.  They were now in a green meadow, and Deem lay the unconcious  young woman gently on in the water of a swiftly moving stream that ran through the grass.  The sky was bright gold, yet now it blazed with greater light, and under the water the young woman woke up and sat up, and shook the water from her eyes. She was absolutely, astonishingly beautiful, far more so than anyone Dennis had ever seen.  She looked directly at Deem and smiled, and then she looked at Dennis with a knowing look.\par
"I know her," he said.  He was in his bed in his bedroom, and the clock said 2:30 in its reassuring red numerals. "I know her."  He sat up in bed.  It took him a while to be satisfied he was in his own bed, and that it had been a dream.  He could not recall ever dreaming such a strong, clear and powerful dream.  Usually he never remembered his dreams.  He wondered what had brought it on. "I have seen here somewhere, but I cannot recall where." \par
It took him a long time to go back to sleep, and the dream came, unbidden, to him, over the following days during his waking hours and he dreamt it again the following two nights, although on those two nights it did not wake him.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
It was late - very late.  Margaret had gone to bed, and by habit Dennis was sitting in his big easy chair with Attila at his feet.  The only light was a reading light on a stand behind him.  He was sitting on the interior balcony in his house outside his bedroom.  His house was the largest in Nicholls, a pretentious place that had been built many years ago. It had come on the market at the same time that he had retired from the Corps, and Margaret had instantly fallen in love with it.  Since the grandchildren of the previous owner had no interest in it except to unload it, this being Nicholls and the real estate market being a buyer's market, they had snapped it up at a bargain and had lived here ever since.\par
It had been built on a plan popular in England some three hundred years earlier: a massive limestone block exterior with a massively dark-wood empaneled interior split by a main hall that ran the length of the house and went up to the roof.  Off of it were the principal rooms, high ceilinged: the party room, the library, the conservatory, the music room, the kitchen and dining room.  They were all large and high-ceilinged as well, so that the stairs to the second floor were quite a bit higher than you would otherwise expect. All was paneled in dark wood.  There were two staircases in the middle of the hall, one on each side, and the elevator was hidden behind one, an elevator Dennis had had installed.  Attila had mastered the trick of pushing the buttons and loved to ride it up and down, but would scream when he discovered he could not reach the Door Open Button, necessary on this model of elevator.  He could push the buttons for the basement, first and second floor, and found it convenient, until he discovered he was trapped in the elevator.  So he had to be watched.\par
The bedrooms and the TV room and a smaller, quieter study were on the second floor, set back from the hall by a balcony a little over twelve feet wide, wide enough for some chairs and tables that Dennis sometimes used, and were used by guests, as Margaret in particular was fond of filling the house with people.  Why have a house like this if you were not going to entertain?  Dennis was more reclusive, the introvert of the two, but she forced him out of his shell, which he thought was good for him.  And they had Staff, as the place was huge and more than they could manage, especially as they got older: two housekeepers, a butler, three gardeners (there were literally acres of roses, hedges, a maze and flower, spice and vegetable beds behind the place; in front was a large lawn to mow and a grand drive lined by stately mature trees), and generally a few house guests. As a retired Marine officer and as a judge they could afford it all. He would just as soon sleep in a tent.\par
At the moment black sky showed through the skylights they had installed many years before, skylights that brightened an otherwise dark great hall.  There was a knock.  \par
The staff - Margaret called them servants sometimes, but he would not refer to them that way - were all in bed.  It was a quarter till two.  He listened, wondering if he had really heard it.\par
It was repeated.  And Attila's ears were up.  He sighed, closed his book - McGrath's \i Iustitia Dei\i0 , his copy of which was thoroughly highlighted and underlined, with his comments in the margin in English, Latin, Hebrew and Greek, and put it on the end table next to his chair. He looked at it.  He had forgotten the book-mark, a strip of leather, which was lying on the table next to it now. He accepted the fact, stood, and checked his revolver.  Loaded, of course, safety on.  He shoved it in its holster behind his back and made his way to the elevator.\par
There was another knock, louder this time, as he exited the elevator and crossed the hall.  There was some moonlight that guided him through the and around various pieces of furniture. \par
"Coming," he said, and at the door,"Who is there?"  The door was steel, massive, with thin windows of one-way bullet-proof glass.  He was a judge in Nicholls, after all, and some people did not exactly appreciate his services in that regard.  Some vets kept to Marine standards, others became slobs with long hair and beards and rumpled clothing. Case in point. Nicholls probably had fifty or so of these characters.  This one looked familiar somehow, and worried more than dangerous.\par
"Judge Opp, I need your help."\par
Judge.  Not a good sign. That, and the hour.\par
"What's up, Mr. Opp?"  this was Carl.  The noise had woken him up.  His title was butler, but bouncer was among his duties.  You would think he was an active-duty Marine.  His clothes came very close to Marine uniform, crisp and sharp even at this hour.  Dennis wondered if he slept at attention, and with his rifle.  Said rifle was in his arms.\par
Dennis nodded toward the window, where the man stood.\par
"That's Eliot," Carl said,"What's he doing here?"\par
"You know him?"\par
"I served with him."\par
A minute later Eliot was standing inside, Carl having frisked him.  He gave up a hunting knife and a revolver.  He visibly relaxed on seeing Carl.\par
"Judge Opp, I am in real trouble," Eliot said.\par
"You should be if you come here.  Didn't I see you in court about a year ago?"\par
"Yeah, you did.  You gave me probation, not jail time.  For that I thank you."\par
"I try to be fair.  Thanks are not required and verge on being unwelcome. So what are you doing here?  This might be regarded as a violation of your probation, showing up at the judge's house in the middle of the night."\par
"I am in real trouble," Eliot repeated.\par
"Then let's sit down."  Dennis motioned with his cane to a pair of arm chairs with a coffee table between them.  Miguel, another staff member, had appeared.  He also was carrying a rifle.  He could have passed for an on-duty Marine in PT gear.\par
They sat. Carl remained standing, fingering his rifle, still watching Eliot.  Carl was keeping Eliot's knife and revolver for the present.  Eliot did not seem to mind.\par
"Coffee?"\par
"Black, if you will," Eliot said. \par
"I'll take it black, too.  Why don't you make four cups, please?" he asked in the general direction of Carl and Miguel.  Miguel shrugged and headed for the kitchen.\par
"So what's your story?" Dennis asked.\par
"I was hired by Mr. Johnson's people.  He's that big banker in Harrisonville. You know him?"\par
"I've never met him.  But I have heard a lot about him.'\par
"Yeah, well, Crazy Harry and me - we were hired to find some kid named Isaiah Poller and either get him to show us where the treasure is, or bring him to Eddy's place."\par
"So Eddy is involved in this.  Eddy with the tavern, I assume?"\par
"Yeah."\par
"I assume Eddy would find some way to get the information out of the kid?"\par
"Yes.  Eddy can be very persuasive."\par
"I've tried a few cases involving him, or rather, involving some of his men.  Somehow they always seem to get out of it. Witnesses won't talk, or evidence disappears."\par
"That's him.  But Mr. Johnson will turn me over to him if he finds out we didn't get the boy or the treasure.'\par
"So you trespassed on Ranch land."\par
"We went on that property, yes.  They don't have a right to half the county, do they?"\par
"Actually they do."\par
"I was told they don't."\par
"I'm telling you they do. Who told you they don't? Johnson's people?"\par
Eliot nodded. "He has a lot of people looking for that kid. Looking in Nicholls and all over the Ranch.  It turns out there are a number of boys named Isaiah Poller, but only one who is the son of Poller - you know, the general superintendent."\par
"I know of him.  I think I have met him.  Go on."\par
"Well, we watched the kid - Harry and I were assigned to that Isaiah Poller. He and his buddy left the settlement where he lives, you know, the main one, the one they call Hair Burr, or something, and went south.  Harry figured he would lead us to the treasure.  I mean, I was just following Harry.  And Harry got kind of rough - he fired some shots -"\par
"Did he hurt the boy?"\par
"No. He wound up dead."\par
"Really.  I haven't seem him at Butler's.  I didn't know where he had gone."\par
"Isaiah led us to that burnt out ravine in what was in Snake Woods before the fire we set."\par
"You set the fire?"\par
"I shouldn't have said anything about that."\par
"I will want to know more about that later.  I think you are in a lot of trouble."\par
Miguel was back with the coffee.  Dennis sipped his, but it was too hot.  He carefully set it down on the table beside him.\par
"I know I am.  I am in so deep that I don't know how to get out.  That is why I came to you."\par
"So how did Harry wind up dead?"\par
"He chased Isaiah into that ravine.  There is a sinkhole in the middle of it. Isaiah crossed the sinkhole - I mean the edge of the sinkhole - and Harry tried to follow him. He shot at the kid and the noise from the pistol made the earth slide some more.  Harry slid down the sinkhole. I think it is very deep. Anyway more earth and rocks and trees slid on top of Harry.  He is buried under it."\par
"I see there is no evidence of any of this.  It is convenient his body is buried under all that rock and dirt."\par
"We haven't come to the worst part."  Eliot's eyes were big.  It was clear he was deeply frightened.  Dennis did not think he was acting.  Dennis had known that Snake Woods had been burnt out and that there was a ravine and a sinkhole - that was very unusual.  Seldom if ever had he heard of that combination before, so he was inclined to believe at least some of what Eliot was telling him.  He seldom believed anything until all the evidence was in. \par
"Tell me."  \par
Eliot sipped his coffee, then with an abrupt gesture he chugged the rest. \par
"You are not going to believe me, but when Harry was falling in, I heard this weird deep voice slowly say, "Verily you come to me."  He looked at Dennis and almost blushed with the absurdity of the thing. "There was something really evil there, something horrible, like in a horror move, but for real.  I had to get away.  I did.  But I have been hiding out from Mr. Johnson and his people ever since. That was two days ago.  People were watching my trailer - I live on the east side of Nicholls - and I was told that there is an error in my bank account, that I would have to up to Harrisonville to straighten it out.  Until then I can draw no cash. So they know that I have left the Ranch, and they have probably seen the Poller boy since, and Harry and I have not returned with the treasure or the boy.  This happened two days ago. I've been sleeping in the woods and eating weeds, like in survival training. And a rabbit."\par
"So you think they think you found the treasure, and are not letting them at it?"\par
Eliot nodded. "I heard Mr. Johnson is obsessed with the treasure, has been for years. He's tried to get the Ranch for a long time.  He moved to Harrisonville to get close to it.  Yeah. They will turn me over to Eddy to tell them where the treasure is.  And if I don't tell them..."\par
"Do you think the treasure is down that sinkhold?"\par
"Maybe. I don't know.  How should I know? The kid was just trying to shake us off his tail. He did, by the way."\par
"Yes, I think you are in trouble."\par
"I am more afraid of that voice than I am of Mr. Johnson."\par
"Really.  it is an interesting addition to the story."\par
"It happened."\par
"What do you think it was?"\par
"I don't know.  It makes my skin crawl, even now, remembering it. And when I fall asleep I hear that voice: 'verily you come to me.'  Then there is the sensation of falling, and I wake up."  Eliot jumped. "What was that?"\par
"Pig stuck in the elevator," Dennis said, and shrugged. Carl silently went over and freed Attila, who immediately stopped squealing and made a bee line for Dennis. Dennis scratched him while he thought things over, and he went over to Eliot. He sniffed him and bared his teeth.\par
"Attila," Dennis called, and he returned and heavily flopped himself down. It was clear he did not like Eliot, but was keeping his eye on him.\par
"Attila?" Eliot asked.\par
"I've had pet pigs for years.  This is Attila. Attila the Hun."\par
Eliot was amused. Then his face dropped. "Do you believe me?"\par
"No reason not to, but no reason to, either.  I don't know you at all, aside from that little incident a few months ago."\par
"You gotta believe me."\par
"Actually, no, I don't have to."\par
"Then what am I going to do?"\par
"Oh, so you are asking for advice."\par
Eliot nodded.\par
"Well. Are you right with God?"\par
"Right with God? What do you mean?"\par
"I mean either you are right with God or the anger of God rests on you. There are no ther conditions.  You are safest if you are right with God. Otherwise, He is your biggest enemy. Bigger than Johnson, or creepy voices ouf of the ground."\par
"You are making fun of me."\par
"No.  Absolutely not.  I think you need to repent of your sins and accept the salvation that Jesus Christ provided for you through His death and resurrection."\par
"I have heard the Gospel invitation from preachers before. I decline. I didn't think I was in for that when I came to you."\par
"It is not an invitation. It is a command. I am telling you, eye witnesses saw Jesus Christ risen from the dead in the flesh.  He is coming back to judge the living and the dead. Either you are right with Him or He is your enemy. Which side are you on?"\par
"What kind of advice is this?"\par
"The best."\par
"You know, before I heard that voice, I didn't think there was anything to the supernatural. I know that was evil. So if there is evil, there must be good. It stands to reason.  So if there is good, there is ultimate good. Better good than any other good. Right?"\par
"Very - good."\par
"So what if I try your God and see if He protects me?"\par
"You are missing the point. Either you accept Him as God: master, Lord, ruler of your life, for all of it, and for all of your life, with everything you have, or you continue to incur his anger."\par
"What's 'incur'?"\par
"You are still provoking Him with your disobedience.  Because of Who He is, He has every right to your obedience. He demands it.  Obey, or be punished."\par
"Like the Marines."\par
"Only more so.  To some extent, the Marines reflect reality - things only work when they accurately reflect what is going on in the universe. But I digress.  Which side are you on?"\par
"I need to switch sides.  I need God to not be angry with me. If that is the only way I can get His help - "\par
"No, the help comes second.  You come to Him because of the sin issue - everything you have done wrong - and get that settled, and then worry about Him taking care of you.  He takes care of that issue.  He takes care of all issues.  He is savior, which you need, but He is Lord, which He is.  Treat Him as He, by His nature, demands, and He will take care of your needs."\par
"Yeah. I want Him to do that.  I mean, I want to change.  I want to join His Marine Corps. The heavenly Marine Corps and be a good Marine.  Obey His orders, and get fed."\par
"That is not good enough.  That is being a rice-bowl Christian.  He is Lord even if you starve to death."\par
"Like being a Marine dying in combat?"\par
"Exactly.  Either He is Lord without condition or He is not Lord at all."\par
"I see.  Then I accept him as Lord unconditionally."\par
"Very, very good."  There was a change to Eliot's face as he said this.\par
"Are you sorry for your sins?"\par
"My what?"\par
"Are you sorry for everything you have done that offended God?"\par
"That is probably a long list."\par
"He will go over it with you, believe me.  Are you sorry for everything you have done that offended God?"\par
"Yes. Yes, I am."  Dennis was surprised.  The man was crying.\par
"He is here in this room right now," Dennis said, "Listening to you. Tell him that."\par
"What do I call him?"\par
"Lord Jesus."\par
"Lord Jesus, i am sorry for my sins. I want you as my Lord. And my Savior.  I heard that somewhere."  Eliot had his eyes closed.  There was a look of peace on his face.\par
"Do you renounce the devil and all his works?"\par
"The devil? Oh, you mean the voice, and I suppose where it came from?"\par
"Yes. The devil is the chief rebel angel against God."\par
Eliot's face suddenly shifted. His head went up, his shoulders shifted and his eyes rolled. "NOO!" he shouted,"You can't have him," and he fell on the floor. He flopped like a fish. The shouts echoed in the great hall, and doors upstairs were opening.\par
"Be quiet, and come out of him, in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth," Dennis commanded.  There was a gurgling noise and an animal scream from Eliot; his back arched, and the scream seemed to leave and trail off in the distance.\par
"What was that?" Eliot said. He was sitting on the floor, and his face had returned to peaceful.\par
"Not sure," Dennis told him,"Just a nuisance or something. It's neither here nor there. It is not here anymore, anyway. Do you renounce the devil and all his works?"\par
"Oh, absolutely,"  Eliot said."I renounce the devil and all his works."\par
"I would like to pray that God will fill you with His Holy Spirit," Dennis said. "Things like that will not return.\par
"Do so."\par
Dennis was annoyed slightly because when he laid hands on Eliot and prayed, Eliot began praying in an unknown tongue.  Well, if the Committee on Doctinal Purity found out about this, he was out of being an elder, off the denominational committees, and would lose a lot of friends. Well, fine, he decided. Better to do the will of God.\par
\par
\par
When Dennis and Carl pulled up at dawn, Deem was standing in front of the smoking ruins of the small clapboard church.  There was not much left. The firemen were still moving around, turning over pieces of wood with their prods down in what had been the basement, looking for anything still on fire in the soaked pile.  There was the crunch of glass sometimes when a foot found a picture frame that had survived the flames and the collapse of the structure.\par
Dennis thought of all the pictures, now gone.  They had been along the main hall in the bigger church they had had to move out of and barely fit in the smaller structure.  Pastor Hartmann, among others, had been absolutely insistent they come over.  Now they were gone, some going back before 1900, an irreplaceable collection.  The building itself was nothing.  The Decorating Committee's treasures in their locked closet were, if not soaked or burned, undoubtably ruined.  There was nothing of value. The building would have been condemned in some jusrisdictions.  No one had been hurt.  \par
"Evil will not triumph forever," Deem said, without looking at them. He was looking down into the smoldering pit of what had been his church.  He was only just beginning to own this place, and this happens: anyway that was what Dennis guessed he was thinking. \par
"What time did the fire start?"\par
"We still need to determine that, Judge Opp," the fire chief said. "We are pretty sure it was arson."\par
"Why is that?"\par
"Because after we got the call here, and our trucks were committed here, your other church - the big one - got burned as well.  The damage there is minor because we got there in time. Minor in the sense that it is still standing - not much of it is flammable.  But it will need fixing up before anyone could use it.  No one was, of course."\par
"I see."\par
"I wonder what Eliot knows," Carl said.\par
"We will have to ask him."\par
\par

\pard\cf1\f1\lang1033 Eliot heard the voice that Seth heard and felt what he could only describe as horror in that ravine, like something evil, out of a horror movie was there.  He's scared and needs to talk, had seen Dennis as his judge on a case where he had been merciful to Eliot, has no one else to turn to.  He is on the run.  Johnson has all his money and Eliot is afraid he will take vengeance for not returning with the treasure or Isaiah at least. Dennis hears Eliot out: the prairie fire had been deliberately set to wipe out the Ranch, on Johnson's orders. \cf2\par
\par
Johnson is attempting to touch the apple of God's eye in setting himself against the Ranch.  Not a smart thing to do. Dennis tells Eliot he is also in trouble with God.  Eliot knows it.  He just knows it. So nervous he is sweating. \par
\par
 Eliot has nowhere to turn.  Dennis leads him to Christ. Now the pig is friendly - pig had been suspicious of him before, but now he is relaxed.  Eliot notices and Dennis tells him that Attila  is a very spiritual pig.    With a shave and a haircut and new clothes - he had had the long beard, long hair and fatigues look - he looks completely different. He must now learn the ways of the Lord, not the ways of the world.  As he had trusted and obeyed Johnson, so he must now trust and obey God.  God has grace and love, Johnson had neither.\par
\par
Nonetheless Dennis is not completely convinced that this is real.  He does not put it past Johnson to put a spy in his house.  But there is no proof and it is not yet time to see if this is wheat or weed, so he decides to wait until it is clear.\par
\par
\par
\par
God has pity and lovingkindness on the favored, but as for the rest, He "kills with a heart like arctic ice'to borrow the words from  The Warrior Song.  It is hard to accept that this is part of the God of Love.  He is also the God of Justice and He has no compassion or regard for the tender feelings of those He throws into hell.  Difficulty seeing how this ties into my story.  He will not pity or spare or have mercy on them, but destroy them.  So Deem et al should not fear the damned, or those who appear so, but regard them with what? Warning?  'There but for the grace of God go I'. \par
A theme here is to value treasure on earth, or any treasure, above God can lead directly to damnation.  It is idolatry.  Some are saved, some damned, but many in are in the murky middle, where the battle is waged.  Or are they? If they are not saved, they are damned.  In that sense there is no murky middle.  It is one or the other. But some are so hardened they will never believe, but God has turned them over to damnation: the reprobate.  Do I really believe that God creates some people only to throw them into hell? What if, via foreknowledge, God prevented the conception of every human who will wind up in hell? Better to not exist than burn forever? No, rather, He uses them for His purposes.  The revelation of God as the Terrible One is one I have trouble with.  He is furious with those who reject Him, and all have, until they are regenerated.  Yet He uses them for His purposes.  So in this story in a way I, the author, am God, predestining some like Crazy Harry and Johnston to hell, not due to foreknowledge but predetermination.  I can have no pity on them, because that is how I made them.  They are for the pit. What is our attitude to be toward those who burn? Rev 18:20-19:5 indicates joy  (Rev 18:20, praise (Rev 19:1,3,5).  But this refers to then, not now.  Most, now, that we approach are in the 'murky middle' and God may still save some who appear to be of the damned,  with hard hearts such as we once had. So, yeah, intercession and concern now because of where they end up. But there is a limit to the concern. We cannot let them triumph over us with their damnation (echoes of the Great Divorce by Lewis).\par
\par
Marines, etc., have to kill the enemy, sometimes sending them to hell.  They can have no pity on the enemy.  We can have no pity on those who reject the gospel: pity must be reserved for those who have not yet heard it and may still respond.  Nonetheless we can pray for those who seemingly reject the gospel, as they may repent later.  \par
\par
Trying to reconcile the goodness of God with the seeming remorselessness (too strong a word? Relentlessness?  Implacableness? ) of the Judge, who cannot be appeased aside from Christ's work on the cross and means final judgement as exactly that. There is no softness towards the damned in the end.  God displays His Holy Justice, which with our feeble understanding and lack of comprehension we accuse to be cruel. We must remove cruelty from consideration.  Yet the definition of cruelty is 'callous indifference to or pleasure in causing pain and suffering' - dare we say that God is cruel?  The Day of the Lord is described as cruel in Isaiah 13:9 but nowhere is God referred to as cruel: it is not part of His revelation about Himself.  So, no, we do not dare say that God is cruiel. Just, yes.  Any just punishment would be regarded as cruel if you set justice aside, but it is intrinsic to the punishment.  It is then nonsense to say God is cruel because He is just. \par
\par
Deem gets into a discussion on all this, I guess. \par
\par
What of Jeremiah 13:17 or Luke 19:41: He wept over Jerusalem.   A lost opportunity to be saved. They would not.  A hot judgement not a cold one. Did He then shed tears for the damned? Or were they they elect, yet they resisted grace?If they were NOT chosen, why did He cr? If they were chosen, how could they reject Him? How do you reconcile Jeremiah 13:14 with Jeremiah 13:17?\par
\par
Deem's answer is it was impossible for Him not to mourn over the people He had been given, the nature of God being love, but also He rebuked them for their unbelief. Calvin:"By this weeping he proved not only that he loved, like a brother, those for whose sake he became man, but also that God made to flow into human nature the Spirit of fatherly love.And when he saw the people, who had been adopted to the hope of eternal life, perish miserably through their ingratitude and wickedness, we need not wonder if he could not refrain from tears."  {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://biblehub.com/commentaries/calvin/luke/19.htm }}{\fldrslt{http://biblehub.com/commentaries/calvin/luke/19.htm\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22    Had He not wept, could he have been fully human? Yet He reflected the Father's love, and at the same time His judgement.  \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\i\f0\lang9\par
\i0  \par
}
 