{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 The effect of three hours sleep started rising as the afternoon went on . Two women wanted him to solve a property line dispute. Could he come to the jail and talk to her boy?  What did he think of the bingo at St. George's? Of the presidential campaign? The candidates for governor?  He listened and tried to give wise answers and dodged some.  Should the Marine Corps have banned short sleeves?  What does it mean where it says God repents, in simple sentences because it was asked by a young teenager.  What is wrong with the Catholic Church? Do you support Israel? Gay rights?  Homosexual marriage?  Do you think that tongues are the sign of baptism in the Holy Spirit? (No) Why do evangelism if God has already picked out the saved (that was easy: we obey what He told us to do). There was a mounting sense that seminary had horribly underprepared him: he knew church history and doctrine, Greek and Hebrew and how to exegete a text, as well as what Barth and McGrath and a dozen others were thinking, the eisegesis of every book in the Bible and the how and why on the Creed, what was wrong with Clark Pinnock and Tielhard de Chardin, but nothing official prepared him for this onslaught of emotional  and intellectual intensity from all directions.  But it was more than being the Bible Answer man.  People spent their few seconds with a pastor for a reason, out of a need, and often he found the surface questions led to deeper issues. Mostly he told people he would like to talk to them at length, later, fully realizing there would not be a later but more and more desiring it.  This, he thought, was what he was born for.   He had actually spent much of seminary listening to people talk about themselves, troubled academically or otherwise, who needed someone to listen, and he had been there for them.  Now he was here for these people, and they knew it.  Maybe he should have gotten into the counseling program, but his GPA was not high enough. He enjoyed it for a while, but it became like running past his limit. Deem was simply exhausted.  Something in the back of his mind reminded him that he needed to write that sermon.  He told himself he had begun a good sermon, not clearly remembering what he had done.  \par
His head was spinning. Or fog. EIther one. Or both.  So many people, so many view points, so much need, so many simply needing someone to talk to, and here he was. It was said America was lonely and needed someone to talk to.  Even true in Nicholls.\par
The line ended. He got in the car and sat there.  The keys were in the ignition, which was normal in Nicholls. People got offended if you didn't, because there might be some reason someone needed to move your vehicle, like it being needed as a barricade in case a Chinese division was spotted outside town or something.  It would surprise him if there was a tank or a howitzer in every garage.  Weird people. Which way back to Pfingsters? Where was Aaron?  He could not remember very well, and soon found himself driving down a straight road through unremarkably dull terrain, due east by the lowering sun.  This went on uneventfully and he got sleepier and sleepier.  There were gravel drives for ranches and farms at long intervals, and he decided he needed to stop or he was going to be in the ditch.  As there was no traffic, he simply pulled over as far as he dared and turned the engine off. A minute later he was sleeping against the steering wheel.\par
Deputy King of the Nicholls Police Department was out patrolling. He had been on the force for thirty years and his job was simply to patrol the rural roads.  If anything happened that might lead to an arrest, he was to call it in and let other people handle it.  That instruction, repeated over many years, had sunk in and rankled him.  He longed for a situation in which to prove that was not necessary.  Unfortunately things had usually gone badly.  He was no longer allowed to do police work inside the city limits, or in fact,near anyone.  The sherriff's office and the city Police Department were the same thing, there being only one town, Nicholls, aside from the Ranch, which handled its own security.  Now he saw a car - not a truck - an anomaly, parked in the middle of nowhere.  He had read about drug gangs with rendezvous, even spies and crime figures that found secluded places.  He was seven miles out of Nicholls. In the middle of nowhere.  There was no reason for a car to be stopped out here.  There were very few roads.  This road led east to Clinton.  He had heard they had crime over there.  This could be a criminal.  He could be cracking a big case, and then everyone would look up to him.  He would be a hero and allowed to bust tough people. He licked his lips and took a new breath mint, just in case he had to get out and take control of a wildly escalating situation.  \par
He pulled over a half mile back and watched the stopped car suspiciously. A car. People here drive trucks.  Someone from the city. Or even Clinton.  Not from here, which would raise the suspicions of every good cop.  He watched cop shows.  You look for things out of place.   But he had also gotten in trouble for calling in too many things - dead deer that looked dangerous, mailboxes that "looked funny", clouds that "might become a twister", a rancher who looked at him when he drove past,  and they sometimes got mad  in the office when he didn't have enough information. They still talked about that deer, even though it had been twenty five years ago.  Someone had hit it with a truck.  But it could have been rabid.  Its lips had been pulled back, like maybe it had been attacking the truck when it got hit.  He never mentioned it anymore, because he got ribbed about the Zombie Deer if he did. "Find any more Zombie deer?" they would ask.  \par
Out came his binoculars.  He crouched so they, whoever they were, could not see him. Just in case.  "Co-ro-lla" he said, slowly. Some kind of foreigner. He wished they would let him do something besides patrol rural roads.  He showed initiative, he had been told, but no wisdom. Some of the people in town could be rough. So he was out here. He would show them. A little less initiative and a lot more wisdom was wanted. He wished they would stop saying that.  Foreigners.  Maybe espionage.  He watched a lot of television when not on duty, mainly crime shows.  He dreamed of cracking an espionage ring.  He hoped this was his big chance. Something better than zombie deer and monster mailboxes. Must be espionage.  \par
He called it in an hour later, hoping the radio call was not being monitored by the spies.\par
"I got me a spy ring operating right here on the East Road," he whispered into the mike."I'm waiting for them to do the drop and catch them all."\par
"Fife, what is your 20?" He hated it when they called him Fife.  They always called him Fife. Never King.  Never Deputy King. Just Fife.  He would show them. He reported his position. He told them what he saw, and they told him to go call in the license number.  But do not approach. Do not contact.  That convinced him this was one dangerous situation.  He would have to use his years of experience and his professional discretion on this approach.\par
So he slowly moved his patrol car up to where he could see the license plate. He waited carefully.  No action. He had not spooked them. Good. He called the plate in. It belonged to the Episcopal Presbyterian Seminary in Michigan. There was nothing outstanding on it.   Likely story. A cover story. He wasn't fooled for a minute. Not a second. There was no movement. This wasn't going to be like the time he had called for the Bomb Squad on an abandoned car, no sir. Michigan. Wasn't that near Canada?  Close to foreign, for sure.  He thought about it decided no, it wasn't.  Part of Chicago, maybe.  He had been to Chicago, once, and it seemed to go on forever. Michigan was probably in there somewhere.  And mobsters were from Chicago. If he had a spider-sense, he thought, it would be tingling right now.\par
He pulled up right behind the foreign made car and turned off his engine. There was someone in the front seat.  The driver was looking at something on his lap, all hunched over. Probably wiring up an explosive device.  Last night he had gotten a big bowl of popcorn and carefully watched a detective show in Mama's basement, where he had a room and was allowed the family room down there, as long as he kept it clean and didn't put his feet on the coffee table. The cop had finally arrested the bomb-maker.  Well, this was not a New York apartment, but close. Not close.  But this situation reminded Deputy King of the show.\par
"Playing it cool, are you, you Rooskie or whatever you are?" he muttered. He carefully got out of his car, closing the door carefully, and took his long flashlight with him.  He was not allowed a sidearm.  The flashlight was a weapon.  "Nothing sharper than a rubber ball for Fife," they liked to say.   He would show them, he would. \par
He looked at the figure, feigning sleep.  Or maybe not.  Playing possum?   Not looking at his lap. Probably just another drunk. That happened sometimes out here in the wilds.  The fellas in town just didn't know the dangers he faced out here, alone, where anything could happen. It was the wild, wild West and anything could happen.  And he was on the front lines, defending the good citizens of Nicholls against whatever horrors there were in the wastelands. And he was armed only with a club.\par
"Ok, drunk, put your hands where I can see them." He wished he had a firearm. He would be aiming right now! Wait 'til they heard about this one! Maybe he could have a real weapon  after this.  They would see the dangerous situations that occured on a regular basis out here in the wilds and realized that he, Deputy King,  had been right all along.  The shoe was on the other hand now, baby!  He knew this was a spy and not a drunk, but there was no reason to use all the facts at his disposal right away.\par
Deem woke up.  There was a fat old nervous-looking fellow just outside his car window holding a billyclub and wearing a badge.  \i Why is everyone but the police armed? What a weird town.\par
"\i0 Ok," he said, and put them where he could see them, on the steering wheel. \par
"Now, get out of the car." Deem moved his hand to open the door.\par
"Nope, nope nope! Keep your hands where I can see them!"\par
"Sir. I can't open the door unless I move my hand."\par
"Hmm. You're not trying to trick me, are you?"\par
"No, sir, I am not." He was so tired it was hard to think or move.  The officer carefully reached for the door handle.\par
Suddenly the door opened and Deem fell out onto the pavement. He had not even realized he had fallen asleep partly against it. And his left leg was asleep.  Maybe this was a bad dream? Some kind of twisted joke they played on visitors?\par
"Ok, drunk, get up.  I know you're not drunk.  This is a Roosski spy trick, just to trick me."\par
He did, slowly. "I am not drunk," he protested.  It would have helped if he had been more awake. He knew his speech was slurred.  He also was aware that his accent marked him as from out of town.  People in Nicholls had their own accent, not the Midwestern accent of Michigan, not a southern accent.  'Wash' often came out 'Warsh', for example. Why was he thinking of this now?\par
"Put your hands against the car," he was told. He did so, and the police officer patted him down and found his holster. With a gasp he opened it and there was the fake gun.\par
"I faced down an armed man," the officer said to himself, "Well, he would have been armed if he had had a real gun! What is the matter with you, mister, that you have a fake gun? Don't you know you could get shot?"\par
"With a fake gun?"\par
"Well, if someone else had a real gun and they thought you had one, too, they might shoot you."\par
"Then, sir, it does not matter whether I have a gun."\par
This was too much for Deputy King. "I have a mind to take you in for questioning, drunk. Spy."\par
"I am not drunk. I haven't had anything alcoholic." Unfortunately Deem often belched soon after waking up. He belched now followed by a yawn.\par
The deputy's eyes narrowed. "I want you to walk a straight line."\par
"Where?"\par
"Down the center of the road."\par
There was no center stripe.  After a few exchanged remarks the deputy finally admitted there was no center stripe.   There was one closer to town, but not out here, which Deem was puzzling him, now that he thought of it.  He said nothing about it but Deem could read it on his face.   He finally admitted he was  Deputy King of the Nicholls County Sherriff's Department, which was also the Nicholls City police.  He  made Deem walk a straight line along the white edge stripe on the side opposite from the vehicles. Deem did his best, which was not very good under most circumstances, even worse when he had been woken up like this.\par
"I am going to have to take you in."\par
"Sir, for what?" \par
"Drunk driving, carrying a gun without a permit, resisting arrest and for being a SPY."\par
Deem was so surprised at this that he said nothing. He hoped to get some sleep in the car.  Just like on tv, Deputy King pushed his head down as Deem got in the back.  There was bulletproof glass between the front and the back, not the usual netting.  Deem opened his eyes when Deputy King made a sudden u-turn, almost went into the ditch, reversed, almost went into the ditch on the other side, and then floored it back to town with the lights and sirens going.\par
It was only five minutes back that way.  Deem looked at the back of Deputy King's head.  This is how a lot of people see God, of those who believe in Him.  A remote, erratic, impartial judge who cannot be reached and punishes with impunity and capriciously.  How different from the real God who took out punishment on Himself and is always ready to listen. With that thought, Deem prayed.\par
, but Deputy King had the lights and siren going all the way back into town until he pulled up and entered the police station garage. \par
Deputy King ignored Deem\par
The garage door shut behind the car, preventing escape. Deputy King got out and strutted around and opened the door and ordered his prisoner out.  There was two police officers in the garage.  Neither looked too happy at their arrival. \par
"Deputy King, please come with me," one officer said.  Off he went.\par
"Sir, I am afraid we have to follow protocol," said the other officer who looked a lot more competent than Deputy King. "I am hoping we can get this cleared up and you out of here as soon as possible, but rules are rules.  I am Deputy Chips.  We will try to make this as easy as possible. Please come with me."\par
They went into a small windowless office.  A thick pile of papers was thrust at him to fill out.  He had to empty his pockets. Everything was examined and catalogued. Several officers examined his fake gun, which was then put in a sealed bag and taken somewhere. He had to change into an orange jumpsuit. He saw the doctor, who administered a breathanalyzer test.  Deputy King, it seemed, had forgotten about that. He was photographed from the front and the side.  He had been arrested before, in seminary, and this was little different.\par
During all of this, from some other part of this building, there was some yelling going on behind a closed door.  Deem was alarmed until he realized "bonehead" was the most frequent word, and there was a second, more muted voice, that he recognized as that of Deputy King. \par
"Looks like you were arrested in Michigan two years ago," Deputy Chips commented, looking at a computer screen that Deem could not see. "Charges were dropped. Not even entered.  Hmm." Deputy Chips became a little colder, a little more professional.  It was all there, Deem thought. The deputy studied the screen for a few minutes.  Deem told himself there was nothing there that had not been resolved.  Deem got nervous when the deputy's hand dropped down and touched his handcuffs, as if to reassure himself they were there if needed.\par
He could make one phone call. He called Pfingsters. Kitten laughed and said he was going to call Judge Opp - Elder Dennis Opp - over. "Deputy King, right?  Who is with you?"  \par
"Deputy Chips."\par
"Give him the phone."\par
The deputy took the phone.\par
"Uncle!"    He listened for a few minutes, finally said, "thanks," and the call was over.\par
"Sorry about this.  We'll need you to take a statement, then someone will take you out to get your car.   Wait here.   The restroom is through that door, if you need it.  You are not under arrest.  The statement will be more about King than you, so don't worry. The detective just needs to be able to find you. He gets mad when we lose people, which doesn't happen often."\par
A minute after Deputy Chips had left, a man in civilian clothes rushed in and pulled up a chair and sat on it backwards. He picked up Deem's pile of papers and held it out in front of him so he could look past it and see Deem at the same time.  After a minute he said, "What a fricking waste of time. Monumental stupidity." He threw the papers on the table. "Do you want to file a complaint against Deputy King?"\par
He was tempted to, but that was not a good way to start with a possible church member. Or life in a strange town. He shook his head.  \par
With that the detective left.  Deem guessed that is who he is, anyway.   "Murren!" he called as he went down the hall, "Take this guy to his car. Yeah, I mean now, not tomorrow. Anytime, sweetheart. We have all day, you know. You can suck your thumb later. God knows you do nothing else around here."\par
Soon he was in the front seat of a patrol car, dressed and headed out on the East Road. Deputy Murren was of course a former Marine.  Deem had trouble getting him to talk, but he finally opened up a little. He had seen no combat, but he had seen a lot of different embassies.  He had been assigned to the White House, which he had considered the high point of his time in the Corps.  He'd gotten out in the year 2000.  He didn't go to church, didn't see anything in it, one way or the other.  Religion was, in his view, for those who had no sense of control over their own lives.  God was a projection of the best that man wanted to be, nothing more.  He changed the subject  and told Deem to stay out of the trailer park on the east outer road south of town.  The police did not go in their alone. Good citizens did not go in there at all.  Nicholls had its share of crime, almost all over there.  Probably no church people went there, so there was no reason for Deem to - Are you sure this is the right road? A lot of these roads look the same. Not that there are a lot of them.\par
As far as he could tell. But there was no sign of his car.  They drove all the way to the Henry County line and back, only ten miles,  looking up farm roads as well.  It was gone. The road was flat and straight the whole distance and one piece of it looked just about exactly like any other part of it, but the car - the seminary's car - was gone.  He had lost their car.  And we know that God causes all things to work together for good for those who love God, to those who are called according to purpose.  But losing a car?\par
Deputy Murren said nothing, but Deem could read it in his eyes: where is your God now, hombre?  Deem had been through worse.  This was nothing.  In high school he had taken a girl out on a date to the Prospect Overview on Cacapon Road, where you could look down from the top of the hill across the Potomac River.  He'd parked before the guard rail began.  They had gotten out and a speeding truck had come by and clipped his car. Needless to say the brakes had failed.  It had missed every tree on the way down, only to land on the near railroad tracks and then bounce  ten feet ahead of a freight train that didn't even stop. It sort of bounced off the train and into the Potomac River.  \par
Then there was the time...But God had always come through. He would now.\par
"Nobody would touch a car or a truck in Nicholls. You might get shot and everybody knows everybody and whose car is whose.  But a stranger's vehicle is a different story. Especially out of town, like here, in the rural areas." Deputy Murren nodded towards Nicholls, some of whose  roofs were still visible from where they were standing. Flat.  There was just flat road in both directions to the horizon. Low fields of withered soybeans lined the road on both sides. Everything was shimmering in the heat.\par
"You're sure again that you did not turn either time: either on coming out here or with Deputy King going back in?"\par
"I'm sure."\par
"Were there any other vehicles? Like someone following you maybe?"\par
Deem shook his head. "Only Deputy King."\par
"Well, we will put a BOLO out on your vehicle but the odds are it will be in five hundred pieces by morning.  That, or we will find it with all the windows and lights broken, trashed and burned.  It's not likely we will recover it."\par
"I see."\par
"Where are you staying? I'll take you there."\par
"Pfingsters."\par
"Which one? There are several in town."\par
"Julius Pfingster's."\par
"Does not ring a bell."\par
"Kitten Pfingster."\par
"Oh, right. Ha-ha.  I had forgotten his first name."  They turned around and started back to Nicholls.\par
"You mind if I ask you something, padre?"\par
"Sure, go ahead." \i Padre? \i0   But it was not the time to point out that they did not use that title.\par
"I made it clear that I don't go to church and I see no use in it."\par
"Right. You did."\par
"With that out of the way, do you mind if I ask you something."\par
"Go ahead."\par
"Well...If I believed in God, wouldn't he be kind of like the ultimate Drill Instructor, always demanding perfection until He is satisfied?"\par
"That's the point, though. We can never be good enough. Jesus is good enough for us."\par
"Huh. So why doesn't He just trash us all?"\par
"He has every right to.  But He sent Jesus - the only One who could measure up to His standards.  Now, if you believe in Him you can be accepted by Him."\par
"Tinkerbell, huh? Like Tinkerbell.  Believe in the sky-fairy and you will live."\par
"Not a fairy.  He was innocent and He took our punishment. To the death. For His brothers. For us. For you. For me."\par
"Yeah, well, you know, all that supernatural stuff and everything is not for me.  There is the material world and that is it. You die and you rot.  We make our own meaning."\par
"If we make our own meaning, that means that it really means nothing, right?"\par
"I will have to think on that.  On another subject, while I have you, my wife and I agreed when we got married to do everything 50-50.  But she says I am not doing my part, so she is not doing her part. And she is not doing her part, believe me."\par
"Yeah, well, that 50-50 stuff is trouble.  It needs to be one hundred percent and unconditional on both sides. You give one hundred percent to her and don't count how much she gives back. That will fix that one."\par
"Thanks, padre. That is a good idea.  I will have to try it.  Not bad for someone who believes in a Sky-fairy."\par
"Think about what I said."\par
"Yeah, right," Deputy Murren said. He opened the door for Deem, who was glad he was in the front seat this time.\i\par
\i0\par
\par
\i\par
\i0\par
}
 