{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 'Sit down." It wasn't really an order, Deem told himself, but it could have been. The Mayor's weatherbeaten face said he was about sixty. His grey buzz-cut and sharply pressed clothes were only the next most outward signs of his past.  He had been a lieutenant general or something, Deem had heard, and had retired and immediately run for Mayor and held the office term in and term out.  Rail-thin, straight, tough looking.  Various pictures of the Mayor Himself in uniform, alone, with a buddy, and in small groups decorated his wall. Mostly field gear, with helmets and rifles.  A few other things that drew Deem's interest: a Japanese fan, delicately spread, a sea turtle carved out of speckled stone and highly polished, a spent 50 cal machine gun bullet mounted on a wooden plate.\par
"They dug that out of my leg.  Another fraction of an inch and it would have hit an artery. A fraction of an inch the other way and it would have broken my leg and hit a major vein. The doctors said it was a miracle I survived  Mr. Futz, please, make yourself at home. You are in the miracle business, I believe.  I thought you would be interested in mine."\par
The office was spare, the furniture old.  The only exception was the very comfortable couch and two arm chairs for guests in a light pink rose pattern.  A sprig of artificial flowers on a matching cloth on the coffee table between them pulled it together but also enhanced the overall severity of the office.  Deem guessed the mayor's wife had picked this furniture out, a jarring feminine presence in a wholly masculine office.  Yet somehow the couches and chairs suggested a boxing ring.  They were rigidly, exactly placed.  Deem guessed there were marks on the floor to move them into their precise location.\par
Deem sat on the couch, the obligatory coffee in front of him in its styrofoam cup.  Deem followed the steam and met the eyes of the Mayor.  They were attempting a friendly appeal but there was a lot more going on behind them than that.  Deem remembered the TV interview in the trailer court, his only previous encounter with His Honor.  They were alone.   Somehow that was alarming.\par
As if waiting for the bell to ring, the Mayor paused and looked at Deem. Then suddenly he spoke.  "Mr. Futz, I don't really know where to start.  I've been meaning to meet you - what, it's been less than a week, and now this happens, between those coins and the trailer court: you seem to have arrived at an odd time in the life of Nicholls. I simply did not have time the other day. " He paused, as if expecting a response, but not really long enough for one. "I wanted to meet the pastoral candidate - I like to keep in touch with the movers and shakers around town, the power centers, and the pastor of the Epper church is certainly one - and was told you had been delayed, but here you are, and I wanted to welcome that candidate to Nicholls, but I don't know, I simply don't know....Pastor Hartmann and I knew each other in the Corps and it was a shame people didn't respond properly to him. Fine man.  I have great respect for chaplains. They are very useful in our society in addressing situations that arise in people's lives.  In fact, my parents were members of the Nicholls Epper church and I went there as a boy. Drifted away in my teenage years, but there it is...And chaplains can help speak into the chain of command in a way no one else can.  Great skill there, great insight sometimes.  Confidentiality and all that. Miracles.  Hope in hopeless situations. Words of comfort.  I always appreciate a good chaplain."\par
He almost gave Deem time to say something, again, but did not.\par
"This town was founded by Marines for Marines and their families.  After the Civil War we came together, Northerners and Southeners, and resolved to put away our differences. We held Marine culture as the highest and the uniting culture.  Now we are finding that that is fading from Nicholls.  Formerly people would fight to be sure Marine culture was everywhere and that only Marines would be in public office.  Some people see you coming in as a non-Marine as a threat to our society.  They don't like it. By itself, we could handle it. But then Kikker Industries is headed by non-Marines, although there are a good number of Marines working there in management on down.  Kikker is our largest employer.  We are proud of them, even if the Kikkers came from outside and live at the Ranch. Some people see it as a real threat to our community values.  Some of us think we can influence non-Marines into sharing Marine values.  Others don't think so. But I can't just order everyone to toe the line.  It didn't always work so well in the Corps, either.  Persuasion works a lot better, but I am stymied in some ways.  I need you on board."\par
"You see what I am leading up to? This town has problems.  Even speaking as a Marine, it is too Marine.  We are more Marine than the Corps is, and some of our men have trouble in the Marines. Why? Because they grew up here. DIs HATE it when they get one of our recruits.  I have had conversations with officers in San DIego about what we do to the boys here before we send them off.  It used to be they were glad to get our boys.  Now they have to unteach them.  They are hard to break down to build as Marines.  They think they are half way there. That is one problem.  We are out of line with where the Corps is and our boys think the Nicholls way is the only right way.  The DIs burn more time than they would like teaching them different.  Something is wrong there with Nicholls Marine culture if the Corps has problems with our kids.  Twenty years ago they were glad to get these kids. No longer. Secondly, this town has fossilized.  It's frozen in time.  Probably that is the same issue.  Many people in town have nothing to do with the Marines. Some resent the fact that jobs go first to Marines, like we are just a good-old-boy network and not veterans who served our country and they did not.  We have moved away from that, and the 'Marine element' in town, including myself, tends to resent those who, who don't live up to the Marine ideal.  Who have not internalized it.  Some come back from the Corps and have not internalized it.  I will tell you that they are not particularly welcome here.  After thinking about it, I have decided that is not right.  And some of us become so Marine we are a self parody. We double down. Get weird. I have noticed it in myself. This causes divisions in this town.  Divisions I sincerely hope you will address.  I am the Mayor of everyone, not just the Mayor of the Marines. I need those votes, to put it bluntly, and I was shocked when a non-Marine candidate almost beat me in the last Mayoral contest.  It won't happen again.  I need to reach out to these slackers who slept in and grew fat while real men were protecting the country.  I shouldn't say that publicly, bad politics, but that is the situation."\par
Deem said nothing. \par
"You need to know the situation.  Now you come in and bring in people from the trailer park into the city.  I get phone calls.  Everyone in City Hall gets phone calls.  The CIty Council gets phone calls.  Everybody in this town is calling the city.  The dog catcher is getting phone calls because people can't get a hold of anyone else because the lines are busy.  Then we ANNEX the freaking trailer park. Did that help with the phone calls, I ask you? No.   I suggested we think about it and do some planning about what we do now after we take it, but Noooo,the city council said we could do that after we had it under control.  So now I am mayor of the freaking Nicholls trailer court.  Aside from how they will vote, if they vote, what do we do now, Mr. Futz?   You own this baby, and if it crashes, believe me, you crash with it. None of this is sticking to me.  What ideas do you have to take care of the trailer court? And we have a limited budget. And time.  And our resources are dedicated elsewhere.  In short, don't expect help from the city. This is your mess. You clean it up."\par
Deem had heard there were programs to help people.  The city had no funds and did not, as a matter of policy, get funds from the state or the federal government because there were always strings attached. People could provide jobs for these people.  Doing what? Deem didn't know.  The mayor didn't think he knew.  Deem would be gone someday but he was going to leave a big, stinking, impossible to repair disaster behind.  The mayor was not happy, and made that clear.  Pastor Hartmann would have known what to do.  And it would not have been what Deem had done. He did things right. Not like this.  With all due respect to you as a pastor.  The mayor added many colorful comments that Deem thought really weren't necessary.  With all due respect to you as a pastor. And I need your backing.\par
"Do your job," were the Mayor's final words as he showed Deem out. \par
Deem considered the fact he had about fours days left here. And no job, but he had brought neither of those items up with the Mayor. It was possible the Mayor knew. He wondered how the Mayor was hoping to have his support, all things considered.\par
Wherever he wound up, he would never, ever, ever, come back to Nicholls. Not with so many 'conversations' like this.\par
}
 