{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\strike\f0\fs22\lang9 Kitten sat up in bed. It was three in the morning, and it was the same dream.  He'd been dreaming that for fifty years.  He was back on some Pacific island.  He could hear rifle fire and occaisionally grenades in all directions as he pushed through thick brush, looking for Japanese. He lost track of the Marines on either side of him, and he pushed on alone. \par
And he kept walking and walking, and it never changed.  He was alone in the thick brush with the rifle fire and the taste of water-mixed with oil and the heat, clutching his rifle and walking.\par
After a while his breathing went back down to normal.  He was standing at the window, looking out at the town, listening to the night noises.  Somewhere someone was calling for a Corpsman.  He, Kitten, was not the only one still fighting the war.\par
Wars.  He'd been in Korea, hemmed in by the Chinese, under Pullers command.  He'd fought under Puller in the Pacific and then again in Korea. He'd been pleased when Chesty recognized him.  Sometimes he dreamed he was hiking in the Korean winter with Chinese artillery coming down and American jets going after them.  \par
Now he was in the church basement, in the semi-dark, waiting for this candidate.  Kitten looked down at his lap and remembered Adam's arm, blown off, landing in that same lap one moonlight night, the watch still ticking.  Hartmann was gone and needed to be replaced, a different sort of casulty.  What would be the problems with this pastor?  He wished Pastor Smit was still there, as did everyone.  Beloved Pastor Smit.  One fine Marine officer, one fine human being, one fine pastor until he up and died on them.  He had a right to die. Some had argued that he did not have that right, but there it was in Hebrews: it is appointed for a man to die once, or something like that.\par
Now the door opened and in came that Deacon Muis, special envoy from the bishopric - not that he would ever let you forget it, and a scrawny, undernourished, defeated, washed up and faded out sickly specimen in a suit.  The specimen was entirely forgettable at best.\par
"Are you Deem Futz?" Sandy asked him,  in some disbelief and concern, as if to say,"what happened to you?"\par
The specimen nodded in a big-eyed and nervous way.  \par
"Can you tell us something about yourself?"\par
The specimen looked blank and did not answer.  The elders looked at each other.\par
"Well, we would like to have an interview with you, but if that is all you are going to say, I think we are done here.  Deacon Muis, I believe the interview was scheduled on the hour. It is now fifteen after the hour.  Did you have car trouble or is there some other explanation?"\par
"We had no car trouble.  I don't see it fit to provide you with an explanation, only an apology. Sorry we are late."\par
"Well, at least you are not making excuses, Deacon Muis."\par
"I'm not," he replied cooly.  \par
Outside the elders were huddled together.\par
"Obviously they are still unhappy that we got rid of Hartmann. Look at this candidate. Even worse than on paper when you see him."\par
"Yep.  I know Nicholls is out of the way and this happened suddenly, after most of the good candidates were placed, but really.\par
"Here comes the Deacon."\par
"Deacon Muis," Sandy said,"We are more than a little concerned about this candidate."\par
"I don't see you as having a whole lot of choice, frankly."\par
"Some churches wait a year before getting a pastor," Kitten put in.\par
"Do you really think this church will be here a year from now if you dont?" Aaron replied.\par
"There's the Ranch, I suppose. I suppose we could get used to it."\par
"Let's do what we can to keep this church alive.  Ok, gentlemen?"\par
There were murmurs.\par
"I would not suggest you poke the bear anymore, the bear being the presbytery and the bishop.  You could have terminated his pastorage in a much more, shall we say, delicate, way than you did."\par
"We don't thrive on daintiness and delicacy down here, as you know," Kitten said.  Temper, he said to himself. He had fought anger all his life.  At times it had been a friend, but sometimes it seemed to want to dominate him and he had to fight it.\par
\par
\strike0 raised in Nicholls, volunteered 5/8/1941, graduated Nicholls High, Basic San Diego July-Sept 1941, served in the Pacific "in so many places I can't keep them straight.  I didn't want to talk about it for years. Four campaigns. Four.  I swore the Corps was trying to kill me.  I saw so many good mean die..."\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Arrived at Samoa to join 1/7 at initial deployment. \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}1st Division (1 Battalion 7th Marines at Guadalcanal on September 18, 1942 until  9 February 1943 private to PFC . Silver Star. \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}New Caledonia, training in New Zealand, back on Guadalcanal then Pavavu.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab} Battle of Cape Gloucester under Puller  26 December 1943 and 16 January 1944. \lang1033 Bronze Star. Purple Heart.\lang9\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\lang1033 Hospital, training in New Zealand. Corporal, \lang9 R&R, NCO school, Pearl Harbor, made sergeant, training new troops in beach landings in Hawaii and then Pavavu.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab} September  1944, on the island of Peleliu.\lang1033 lost most of his men. Marine Corps Commendation medal\lang9 . Gold Star Device on his Bronze Star. \par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 witnessed landing craft being blown up around him on landing, for 20 minutes he thought he was the only one left alive on the beach, pinned down by machine gun fire. A dud shell hit his amtrac - people thought they were goners.  Some laughed \cf1  \cf0 - men who did not make it off the beach.  Kitten was bitter about it because it was clear later the whole battle was unnecessary.   He remembered the heat and the noise from the landing. Never saw any of his men again, as far as he can remember.  No clear memories at all of the battle itself - so scared he was numb - sharp coral, oily water, urged to press forward, men dying.  He learned later\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sa200\sl276\slmult1 K Company. participated in the destruction of pill boxes and fortifications to allow further landings\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}organized men into foxholes; repulsed night attack by Japanese.  \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}moved inland with his men clearing caves and interlocked fortifications\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}worked with naval gunnery coordinator to clear targets and identify new ones\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}cleared out snipers and pushed inland and up until relieved\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}He was wounded several times, never bad enough that he could be evacuated, but went back into battle. Until wounded, woke up on hospital ship days later after Marines had been withdrawn with massive headache. No idea as to how many days he was on Pelileu- three or five or seven - definitely more than three but they blurred together. Last he  knew he was shaking another Marine who was prone in pre-dawn light to see if he was asleep or dead.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}He was one of very few he had known before the battle who was still alive.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}He struggled with concussion after-effects for years. Claustrophobia. \par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang1033 Sept 1944- October 1944 Hospital  (he does not know where this was)\lang9\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\lang1033  October 1944-April 1945 training in Pavavu, practicing beach landings with new troops, training new Marines\lang9\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Okinawa April-June 1945. Staff sergeant: \lang1033 lost most of his men, all green. Bronze Star second Gold Device.\lang9\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\lang1033 Sept 30 1945-occupation duty in North China after the end of the war, primarily Chingwangtao.  1/5/47 he left Chingwangtao on the Chilton. Returned to US and was released from service when the 1/7 was deactivated on 5 March 1947.\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1  Then he returned to follow Puller in Korea, joining the 1 Marines in late August 1950 at Pendeton.  He was at Chosin, medical discharge due to frostbite leading to the loss of part of his left foot, including all its toes and two toes on his right foot. Raised his kids in Nicholls, got saved in the 1950s watching Billy Graham on television, joined the Nicholls Reformed Baptist Church, which merged in the 1980s with the Nicholls Epper Church under Pastor Smit.  Now a long-time elder, watched Pastor Smit, who trained the session on how to do it right, was off the session when Hartmann was selected, was back on when Hartmann had to  be fired, was instrumental in that.  He and Hartmann never got along.  Hartmann thought all elders, for one thing, should be college educated, and Kitten was never interested.  Kitten retired long ago from truck driving.\par
I don't have any sort of fix on him or what personality would contribute to the story.  I was dissatisfied with what I wrote above, which I crossed out but did not erase because it might be better than I think, or might point in a direction.\par
Kitten is catalytic - he introduces Deem to the town in a way Aaron cannot.  He does not like that college-boy Aaron with his airs: he reminds Kitten of the sort of officer who gets his men killed.  He finds himself protective of Deem against Aaron, then.  \par
He is also suspicious and quarrelsome - he had trouble holding a job after 1947, one reason maybe for reenlisting for Korea.  PTSD.  After Korea he held a job with the Post Office sorting mail but lost it, struggled to stay employed, finally became a truck driver for a number of different trucking companies. Pastor Smit spent a lot of time helping him sort things out, but the temper is still there and an innate distrust of authority - despite being an elder. He may fight against that distrust too hard. He is in control of his suspicions and quarrelsome nature, but look out if he thinks you have it coming.  Has flashbacks; loud noises alarm him, thunderstorms will send him sometimes to the basement. \par
In 2016 he is in his early 90s and expects to die very soon. Still fit and reasonably sharp. But war events are clearer in his memory than what happened yesterday or a few minutes ago.\par
Has to have things in a precise order to contain the chaos in his mind.  Precise in his habits - this grounds him, as does the liturgy and familiar prayers.  Does not like unexpected things or uncertainty. Tends to suddenly develop a remote look, goes expressionless and does not remember conversation around him.  Then he will snap out of it. \par
Things out of order, such as crowds in unexpected places, people on his lawn, doors or cabinets being shut too hard, will throw him to some degree. \strike\par
----------------------\par
\strike0 Kitten watched Muis's car pull up.  He had been snapping people to - they had been walking on his lawn, of all things, even if the thing was all brown, it was still a lawn. He had a sidewalk and a driveway, even if it was currently filled with motor vehicles, but there was still plenty of room.  God made concrete for people to walk on. Only fools walk on grass.  He had made it clear that they needed to stay off the lawn. It was in bad enough shape as it was.\par
People respected him more than formerly. He didn't give it much heed, except when it was useful.  He was the oldest, most decorated veteran in Nicholls, which had always been something he admired until he realized it meant you were going to die soon. He'd had his fill of parades and "say a little something, Sarge" moments.  He'd stopped it when he'd started feeling like a freaking zoo animal, and there was only so much energy he had. He still showed up at Eagle Court of Honors and military funerals.  He figured he was an elder now because of his position - he didn't have any particular wisdom or knowledge of Scripture, just a lot of dead friends. That had been the Canal.  After that he had kept his distance: Cape Gloucester, Pelileu, Okinawa.  He sometimes wondered who they had been.    \par
Out came that Muis, carefully coming around the front of the car, glancing at the crowd and up and down the street. Kitten frowned.  Ok, he frowned more. Where was that candidate? Was he sick? Had he given up on them? He was staying here - Marigold had insisted on it - and Kitten fully intended to resolve things.  Either he would find some way they could have this guy as pastor or, if all else failed, he would fight as hard as he could as long as he could. 'Over my dead body' was easy. That should have happened a long time ago. A memory came up of being face down on sharp coral and the ground shaking. Where was that? It could have been either Pelileu or Okinawa - but nevermind.  Here he was, still.  It would not be long before his body would be six feet under.  Most of the people he had known were there already.  Time was passing and he no longer, really, was part of this world.  He felt like he belonged to another time.  This one was here, the second time he had felt that way, but this time he simply was not going to adapt.  He was just too old.  Old, tired, and there were people on his lawn again.  A glare or two and the lawn was empty again. \par
Kitten looked around but that candidate was nowhere in sight. Aaron was carefully working his way towards him, on the driveway, smiling, greeting people, shaking their hand, excusing himself, moving on.  Finally Kitten bellowed as best he could, but his ability to bellow had diminished on crossing the ninety year mark. "Deacon: where is he?"\par
How had he not seen him? Not that daylight had improved anything.  He was now frozen like a freaking lawn ornament, but not one that anyone would want, in the middle of the lawn, at least twenty feet from anything.  Did this guy always have a deer in the headlights look? And you could see his frontprints where he had walked on the dead grass.\par
"You might as well make it the rest of the way," Kitten muttered.\par
"Dear, be gentle," Marigold whispered.\par
"I am being freaking gentle,," he did not snarl back. It was almost a snarl. But it was not a snarl. Marigold and he had discussed the word 'freaking': it had replaced a much stronger expression that he had formerly used.  And you could combine it with itself and come out with some strong expressions.  \par
"That's good," she said, and put her hand endearingly on the inside of his elbow.  \par
Deem Futz managed to smile as he made his way the remaining twenty feet.\par
"Hello," he said, all friendly-like, as if he destroyed lawns on a daily basis nationally and thought nothing of ruining a man's pride and joy, the entrance to his castle, the freaking little freaked-up freaking freak.\par
"We've met," Kitten managed.  This was a guest, supposedly an honored guest, even if he was no Marine, never had been and never would be, supposedly pastoral material, but the contrast was striking between whatever it was he was and what a Marine is and what a pastor should be. Kitten had taken down his sign that said "All Marines Welcome".  Old Man Hartmann was a pastor.  And a Marine.  A combat vet, even if it was 'Nam.  This guy....\par
"We are delighted to have you stay with us, Mr. Futz," Marigold said, with her enchantingly beautiful smile and all her charm in high gear.\par
"Delighted." Kitten managed. That was about it. He had thought of a few things to say, none of them fit for mixed company, let alone with a houseguest. Or a pastor.  And he himself was an elder.  Well. Self-control was a fruit of the Spirit.  Sometimes it was painful as a crucifixion. Or stepping on a mine.  Anderson had stepped on one. Twenty minutes until the corpsman showed up. He'd writhed in pain.  Anderson was under a white cross on a Pacific island.  Or had they removed him back to Minnesota.  Which island?  No, that was Korea. Kitten's men had been in the stretcher party. It seemed like everyone had either been on a stretcher or at the end of one, except for the walking wounded.  \par
"Why don't you come into the house now?" Marigold asked.  Aaron was there.  Kitten came back to the present. \par
"Are you sick?" Kitten looked at Deem, now sitting at the top of the stairs inside the house. Malaria. Dengue. No, that was then.  \par
"I have been. That and the heat."\par
"So I heard.  Your quarters are there.  Four of my sons had that room, until they joined the Corps.  Muis, you can have the second bedroom.  Beings as Futz is sick, how about you fetch the luggage? I think the crowd is gone and you can pull into the driveway."\par
"I'm fine," Deem said, standing and looking into the room, where a bunkbed, the bottom neatly made, was visible through the door.  \par
"Dinner is at 1800 sharp. If you need to rest, do so. I suggest you be downstairs at 1750.  You might want to get ready first.  In this town we are usually ready to do things ten minutes before the stated time. I hope you don't mind the reminder.  We have the pastor's car here for your use. Any questions?"\par
\line "When is 1800?"   He was serious.  Quite a mister, this one.  Quite a mister. \par
 "Civilian time is 6:00.  It is just clearer to use a 24 hour day. You will find that throughout Nicholls.  Best you get used to it. And here is Aaron with the luggage."\par
There were two bunkbeds in there, four lockers and two desks.  It was a large room, but with all the furniture, there was not a whole lot of room. The window looked out over a large, brown backyard with a bright green vegetable garden - the upper half, anyway - there was a brand new window air conditioner in the bottom half.  Kitten was satisfied - his son had been over and his boys had squared the room away.  Kitten didn't do a whole lot anymore.  No energy.  He was freaking old.  Now he was feeling it. \par
"We got you that air conditioner.  We heard you are from places where there is not heat like this. And you have been sick."\par
"I thank you for your consideration."\par
"It's the least we could do," Kitten was finding himself being a good host despite himself. \par
"Muis, you can open that window."\par
"Indeed I can.  But I think I will go home and be back in the morning."\par
"And you are staying for dinner?"\par
"Oh, yes.  I would not want to miss Marigold's cooking."\par
"No one would. Feel free to use this room as your office."\par
"Thank you."\par
All was in order.  Kitten nodded to himself and walked down the stairs, which he was more careful about than going up because of his foot.  He refused to use a cane, but he was glad there were now handrails on both sides.\par
"Dear," he heard and opened his eyes.  It was Marigold, carefully not touching him because bad things sometimes happened when he was suddenly wakened.  He looked at the clock and the \i Marine Times\i0  that had fallen on the floor. Marigold bent down and scooped it up, folded it and handled it.  He usually just read articles about the 1/7 and a few men whose careers he was following - generally people from Nicholls, now including some women. \par
"We have dinner guests," she said, and he slowly rose from his armchair. He looked around: he was home, not - not where he had just been.  The dream had been vivid, as they often were.  It dissipated.  He reached for his rifle and helmet for reassurance, but there were none, here.  \par
"That Deem Futz fellow," he said,"and that Aaron Muis."  She nodded.  \par
At 1745, face and hands washed, he was in his chair.  There had been some noises upstairs: water running, the toilet being flushed, and presently both men came down the stairs. Kitten could see the open stairs and noted that Futz did not need the handrail, in fact did not use it.  At 1749, to his satisfaction, they were both in the dining room.\par
"Please take a seat, gentlemen," Kitten said.  There were ten chairs at the table, but there were only four plates, and Kitten was at one.  Futz hesitated, looked at Muis for guidance, and they chose a seat.  It was where Kitten could see him easily, the seat one down from the corner. Marigold would sit between.  That left Muis to Kitten's right.  A good choice, Kitten thought to himself.\par
Marigold came in carrying a large turreen of potato salad.  All three men rose. Nikki, daughter in law, was behind the scenes in the kitchen and would not be seen. Fine Epper woman, putting herself in the background everytime.  This was Marigold's house and Nikki wanted the compliments and the glory for the cooking to go to Marigold.  Since Marigold was getting older, she did not mind the help so much.  Kitten thought about pointing out that it would help if Marigold would lose some of that weight, but him telling her that had never gone over well for some reason.  Sometimes she did not appreciate good advice.  But that Nikki had grown up out at the Ranch.  She wasn't crazy or anything, anyway, and Gary had chosen well. \par
"Don't bother," she said,"Thank you for the courtesy but you will be a lot of jack-in-the boxes - I will be in and out."  But the only thing left was a pitcher of ice water, which was passed as Marigold sat and smiled at everyone.\par
"Well, Mr. Futz, seeing as you are the pastoral candidate, let's see you lay out a blessing on the grub and see how you do," Kitten said, almost smiling at him.  He was trying to be freaking friendly here.\par
The young man looked quite startled, like this was a new concept.  He nodded and bowed his head.  There was silence for a minute.  Kitten coughed.  He was hungry and grace was supposed to be fast.  He opened his eye and looked at Mr. Futz. Was he asleep?\par
"Thank You Lord, for the blessings we are about to receive."\par
"Amen," they joined in.\par
"I like grace short and sweet, Mr. Futz. That was fine."\par
"Dear, we once had a missionary quote the entire book of - what was it?"\par
"Third John," Kitten replied, remembering.\par
"Third John during grace."\par
"Freaking show-off." Futz now looked like he had been thinking of pulling a stunt like that during grace.  Had he? Kitten wondered.  "What I like about you, Candidate Futz, is the lack of pretension.  We looked at a lot of freaking resumes with GPA and preaching ability: people boasting in themselves.  Whatever happened to God Alone Be the Glory? Don't they teach that anymore at seminary?"\par
"Stuff," Marigold said,"I am sure they do."\par
Deem agreed with her, but there was a steamroller in the room.  The steamroller continued,"No pretension with you. You didn't cite all your freaking awards all over the place. You didn't mention any, in fact.  Didn't you get any?"\par
Deem said he had not.  He hoped God's voice would be heard, not his boasting.\par
Kitten nodded. "That's the ticket. Don't play the hero. Do your job.  But did you expend maximum effort at all times?"\par
"Well, I had a lot of distractions."\par
"Yes.  I hope you are not making excuses."\par
"No, sir. I am not."\par
"We would expect you, if you are pastor here, to make maximum effort at all times. D'ya understand?"\par
"I do."\par
"I am not sure anyone who has not been a Marine could understand what I mean."\par
"Then why did you ask the question?"\par
"You got me there.  And we decided that we did not want a Marine. First time for everything. We want to reach out to the non-Marine community in Nicholls.  There are people in this town, if you can believe it, who do not have the Corps in their blood."\par
Deem said he could believe it.\par
"Nicholls was founded by Marines for Marines.  Now we get two types: those who wish they were still in the Corps, and those who want to express how much they are NOT presently in the Corps.  We don't get a whole lot of in-between.  Either you move here because you love Marine Corps culture, or you move here to be in our faces about what you hate about the Corps. Not much else."\par
"No one else moves here?"\par
"Not that I know of.  Our population has been going down for a long time."\par
\par
After some passing of plates and some eating and compliments about the cooking, which were warmly received, Marigold asked Futz about his wife.\par
"I'm single," he said, with that deer-in-the-headlights look.\par
"Oh, my," she replied,"I never heard of-"\par
"It's unusual, but it is not wrong," Muis interjected,"we have some single pastors."\par
"But how can he understand married life? How can he -"\par
"-Fulfill the commands that an elder be of one wife, and his household judged by his children?"\par
"Yes, exactly.  One would think him a Papist."\par
"I am not of Romish persuasion, if it comes to that," Futz said. Kitten was pleased to see how acted when provoked. Good, very good.  He was controlled, but no Epper ever liked to be accused of papistical tendencies. \par
"I believe Deem Futz is still looking for a wife," Muis put in.\par
"And how can he find one, if, as I understand it, he cannot find one in the congregation?"\par
"A freaking arranged marriage," Kitten muttered into his plate. \par
"God will provide the way," Futz replied. \par
"Perhaps it is a sign that you should delay being a pastor until this issue is settled and this issue can be evaluated?"\par
"You don't have to answer that, Deem," Muis quickly said, "That is up for the elders, the bishop and the presbytery to discern. As for that, the bishop has put him forward as a candidate, meaning both the presbytery and the bishop think this is not an issue, as they are well aware of it."\par
"It's up to the freaking elders of this church," Kitten said,"and that includes me."\par
"Yes," Muis said,"it includes you.  And I think Marigold should be given an answer."\par
"Better than 'we said so, so little people, shut up'?"\par
"Exactly.  If you think this issue is important enough, then reject the candidate."\par
That was bald. Kitten looked at Muis and Futz, who was being dangled, as it was, over the fire. \par
"I think we should delay discussion on this topic," Kitten put in a minute later.\par
"I am sorry I brought it up," Marigold said."\par
"Not at all. It was a natural question, and it led where it lead naturally."\par
"Thank you, Deacon Muis."  He smiled. \par
"Where are you from, Mr. Futz?" Marigold was determined to get to know him. Hopefully there would be no more landmines.\par
"Gihon Spring Settlement, West Virginia."\par
"Hillbilly snake handlers," Kitten muttered,"Freaking bunch of freaking barefoot coalminers. You need three of 'em together to get a freaking full set of teeth. I knew one or two in the Corps."\par
"It is just a few miles south of Berkeley Springs, West Virginia," Futz responded, feeling his full set of teeth, "and it is a prosperous settlement that ships food, mainly, and does not mine coal at all. Or, for that matter, handle snakes. And we wear shoes."\par
"I spoke out of turn," Kitten said, pressing his lip.\par
"What did - or does - your father do?"\par
He trades manure," Futz responded.\par
"What?" Kitten could not believe what he heard. "Trades manure?"\par
"Yes, manure," Futz replied.\par
"So you are the freaking son of a freaking horse- of a fertilizer distributor? Oh, my."\par
"Well, yes."\par
"You really think, Muis, that we would accept as a pastor the son of a freaking poop pusher? Are you out of your freaking mind?"\par
"Dear, I think maybe-"\par
"Sorry. That was uncalled for. Your office requires respect."\par
"It does. You are forgiven."\par
There were some minutes of silence.  A strawberry shortcake with whipped cream was cut and passed out.\par
"You ever think of joining the Corps?"\par
"It never crossed my mind."\par
"Indeed."  The idea that someone would never have thought of joining the Corps was a new one. \par
"This is very good shortcake, and the strawberries are some of the best I have ever had," Muis added a minute later, after another long dead silence.\par
"Thank you, I made the shortcake - an old family recipe, and the strawberries are local, grown out at the Ranch, as we call it."\par
"Freaking Ranch people. Did you know three of the houses on this street have been bought by them?"\par
"It is good to have kids in the neighborhood again."\par
"They breed like freaking rabbits, those Ranch people."\par
"Dear, we have eight children. We were not exactly celibate."\par
"Not back to that again," Kitten muttered, mainly in Futz's direction.\par
"I hope you enjoyed the meal," he added, when it was over, cleared and they were sitting in the living room.  It had to be explained to Futz, by Muis, that he was not supposed to take the recliner. Somehow Muis was in the other armchair and Futz was sitting along in the middle of the couch, very alone.\par
"Why the blank are you still here," Kitten thought about asking him. But it wasn't really a question.  \par
"I think I am here because God has a purpose in all this." Futz actually said it. Kitten wondered if his face was that plain.  Marigold often said his face said it all. \par
"I suppose you are right.  I have some things to ask you, since we are going through the interview process. "\par
The door banged open. Kitten put one hand behind his back.\par
"Hi, Dad!" came from the hallway. \par
Kitten relaxed and said,"That is my son, Gary. Boy needs to learn to knock."\par
The boy was the spitting image of Marigold in male form, although twenty years younger and completely bald. He kept his hair short. He had retired and moved back here to keep an eye on his parents several years ago, like he and Marigold needed looking after. His own kids were grown, now, also. Kitten had some great-grandchildren who showed up infrequently, little things, mainly, not good for much but looking at.\par
"This is Deem Futz, the pastoral candidate for the Epper church. You know, the one you were raised in."\par
"I'm Gary Pfingster. Pleased to meet you, Mr. Futz."\par
"Sit down and meet him," Kitten ordered,"Make some conversation.  Mr. Futz, you would oblige me if you would talk my son out of going to that fool cult they have out at the old POW camp. He needs to be in a freaking Epper church. God knows we need people. Do you stuff, and get him back."\par
"Dad's talking about the Ranch."\par
"I heard about it, I think.  Jake Profim's old place?"\par
"That is it.  But Jake has been dead for almost twenty years."\par
"It is still going?"\par
"Yes."\par
"Those freaking people are taking over Nicholls. I think half the town is owned by them now. It used to be Nicholls was either Catholic or Epper, not these people."\par
"Dad, you are exagerating.  There used to be a number of Protestant churches here, all of which merged with the Epper Church. Pastor Smit was a great pastor."\par
"He was. I remember him well.  Time was we had some great pastors.  Jake Profim, until he got kicked out.  Pastor Smit.  Big shoes to fill. Big shoes."  Kitten looked towards Futz's feet. He was sure they were small. "Men with honorable and courageous service for their country, decorated veterans who could lead Marines. This is a Marine town, Gary."\par
"Times change, Dad.  It is not as Marine as it was."\par
"Founded by Marines, for Marines and their families. Never forget that.  Marine values. We should not compromise our principles just because we seem to be desperate for a pastor."\par
Futz looked down towards what were probably tiny feet, still hidden behind the coffee table.\par
"He isn't always this bad," Gary told Futz, "Usually he is a lot friendlier."\par
"I'm being plenty freaking friendly, Gary."\par
"I don't think so, Dad."\par
"You are entitled to your opinion. And I have some questions for Futz- for our candidate. And I need to fill him in on the schedule. You will find Nikki in the kitchen, helping your mother. Not that Marigold needed the help, mind you. You think we are old, that is the problem around here. No respect from the young anymore."\par
"I'm hardly young, Dad. I am retired.  Mr. Futz, you have to stand up to him when he is like this. He expects it, and he will have no respect for you if you let him walk all over you. I am guessing he has been."\par
"Nikki is in the kitchen. You might as well take her home now."\par
"It was nice to meet you," Gary said, to Futz. He nodded to Aaron, whom he seemed to know. How, Kitten wondered.  There he was shaking Kitten's hand, and he was gone.\par
"Now here is the plan. Dennis Opp will be here in the morning. He is a Marine Officer, an elder, and a judge.  He is my friend.  He will have some questions for you.  You will be meeting with each elder at least once from now until Saturday night.  You will be preaching Sunday.  We the elders will be meeting Sunday evening, and Monday morning we will discuss the decision we will arrive at that Sunday night.  We want you to go and meet the people of Nicholls, because they will be telling us their impressions, and we will consider that. If you deliver a wall-shaking, hell-smashing sermon Sunday morning you have a chance here. But the transcript from the seminary says you don't have a whole lot of potential as a preacher, is that right?"\par
Futz nodded.\par
"Now, I am no theologian, but I pulled together some questions I want to ask. Others will have other questions. Ready?"\par
Futz nodded.\par
"Do you believe in God? Answer yes or no. These are all yes or no questions."\par
"Yes."\par
"Do you believe in the Trinity?"\par
"Yes."\par
"Did Jesus die and rise again?"\par
"Yes."\par
On it went, with questions at that level, until Kitten abruptly declared he was done for the evening.  He was tired and wanted to go to bed. He did not have the energy he used to have.\par
\par
Aaron stayed a while, typing.  Futz sat at one of the desks and began working on him sermon. Kitten overheard him saying he had not expected to be preaching Sunday, and Aaron telling him something about grace is sufficient in weakness.  All Deem had was a Greek New Testament - everything else he had was either in Michigan or in Kansas City, and he had had to sell most of his books to eat.\par
Kitten had heard that and gave him wise advice: "Don't tell me how crummy life has been. Tell us what you can do for us, and what you will do, if you want this job."\par
Kitten went to bed thinking what an ungrateful wretch Futz was, and Muis was no better, just an interfering prig or worse. You'd think Aaron was his mother.\par
Kitten got up in the night to go pee and the light was on in the bedroom leant to Futz. He was asleep at the desk, with some Greek on a paper and his Greek New Testament fallen on the floor.  Kitten picked that up because, after all, it was the Word of God, and placed it carefully on the desk where it had fallen open to Hebrews 11.  Those Hebrews could fight, Kitten remembered.  Joshua and David were favorites of Pastor Hartmann: many a sermon had diagrams of where forces were placed and moved.  Pastor Smit had never preached like that. There was something about a really sharp sword in the Book of Hebrews.  Maybe Futz liked weapons, after all,   that freaking son of a poop pusher. With that, he fell back asleep.\par
Kitten often woke during the night; he did again.  But instead of pushing through downed trees and around Jap pillboxes under fire, watching the Marine on his right and his brother on his left, he was sitting in the old church - not the one they were meeting in now, that used to be the Reformed Baptist, and before that, Methodist - and not the one Pastor Smit had built, but the one before that, the big old farmhouse that had gotten too small for the church. He was sitting there, watching a spider slowly descend on his silk, listening to Pastor Smit. Kiitten remembered that day.  He remembered not really listening to the sermon, but this time he heard it. It was on Colossians 3:11: Here there cannot be Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free man, but Christ is all and in all. Some in Nicholls were Marine, some were not. Some were rich, some were not. Some were educated, some were not. Some believed one thing, some did not.  But there was a unity of the body, Pastor Smit had preached, that transcends these differences: these God ordained differences.  Not to exalt one above the other but to walk in unity.\par
That was clearer than Kitten usually thought.  It was clearer than he remembered hearing it, for one thing it was a long time ago and another he had not really been paying attention.\par
Then the dream got strange, because from somewhere Pastor Smit brought forth Deem Futz and said, "Here is a fellow who is strange. You gotta love strange people. I mean, you are strange, and God loves you. Beloved , let us love one another...."  Kitten heard the sermon echoing, from many years before, as he walked down the hall from the bathroom.  He needed to think.  Maybe God was saying something.  As he often did, he grabbed his Bowie knife, already razor sharp.  Where had he left the whetstone and the oil?\par
They were on the shelf above the desk in the room where Deem Futz was sleeping.  He hesitated, and then figured he wouldn't be waking him up.  He could sharpen it softly. So he went into Deem's room and sat on the lower bunk across from him, carefully so as not to wake him, and stared at the sleeper and started whetting the knife. The right amount of oil was needed to sharpen a blade softly.  At the right angle. He held the kife up and looked along the blade, and smiled.  It was perfect.  This was reassuringly familiar.  This man was so different, so strange, almost foreign.  The elders had decided didn't want a Marine per se, not after Hartmann. Marine town, Marine church, Marines.  But times change and you can never, ever go back. He was old.  Maybe he should just stop being an elder at term's end and just stay home and yell at kids from the porch, like Jones.  He ran the stone along the blade and looked again at its perfect sharpness.  Beauty, there. Hard reality.  He'd been sharpening this blade since the 60s, when his previous blade had nothing left to sharpen.  Maybe his hands were weaker with age, which is why this one was lasting longer.  He wanted to be buried with it.  No use showing up for the final judgement unarmed. He'd be buried with his rife, too.  The funeral director had balked at the idea he wanted it fully loaded with a round in a chamber, but Kitten had gotten his way: it was in his will like that. There were many in town who were not Marines.  The town was being overrun by those Ranch people, anyway.  How could they reach out to those alienated from the Marines. The church was so small now. He stroked the knife again.  It was clear they did not want a Marine. Pastor Smit had managed to be a Marine, but it was not all of him.  Kitten was a Marine, and being a Marine was bigger than he was. But Pastor Smit had been bigger than being a Marine. Go figure.  He stared at the sleeping form, and sharpened his blade some more.\par
That woke Futz.  He stared at Kitten, at the knife, and back at Kitten. It was awkward, so Kitten was smiling disarmingly.  Since his teeth were in a glass by his bedside, the effect was not that good.  They looked at each other. \par
"Do you always sharpen a knife in here late at night?" Deem Futz asked. It sounded more like,"Are you just going to kill me now?" But there was no fear. Absolutely none.\par
"Well, yes," Kitten said,"I mean, no." No being the no for the second question. \par
"What do you mean by this?"  \par
"I mean I often sharpen my knife in here. It helps me think."\par
"Well, it does not help me sleep. But if you want to kill me, go ahead. You can answer to God, the bishop and whoever cleans the sheets."  With that he rolled over and went back to sleep.\par
"You are not a Marine," Kitten said to his back.\par
"Thank God."\par
"I don't know what to say to that."\par
"You seem pretty short on explanations. Look, I would like to sleep if you are not going to kill me. So either kill me or leave, ok?"\par
"Ok."\par
"Let me ask you something."\par
"You might as well." Deem Futz sat up and looked at him.  There was something here that Kitten had not noticed before.\par
"You seem totally unafraid.  I have been in combat - too many times - and I was terrified, and I did my duty.  If someone came into a room when I was sleeping in it and I woke up and found them sharpening a knife, one of us would be dead within a minute.  But you are not afraid."\par
"I am not."\par
This was simply beyond Kitten. This man was lying here without a weapon and seemingly absolutely no desire to defend himself, but then he wasn't suicidal, either. Kitten had seen plenty of that, and this was diifferent.  First that dream and now this. He got up and said,"Good night, again."  He shut the door behind him as he left.  Deem Futz was already asleep.\par
Why that dream? Why now? Why this guy? Why did he have no fear?  Kitten stared at the ceiling as he waiting, lying down, for 0500, when the alarm would always go off, every day. \par
\par
"Was that one dream, or two?" Marigold asked him at breakfast.  He shrugged his shoulders. There was an article in the local paper about Deem Futz: Our new Epper Pastor? He was preaching Sunday and everyone was invited.  A little on his background, nothing Kitten didn't know, and a few things wrong.  Typical.  "God spoke to Joseph in dreams, you know."\par
"Oh, yeah? Which one?"\par
"Mary's husband, anyway, and also the one in Egypt."\par
"I see you have been reading your Bible better than I have."\par
She smiled and said nothing more about it. "Coffee?"  He took more.\par
It was 0530 and the pancakes and coffee were getting cold. That Deem Futz was not up yet. Kitten wondered if he would remember the knife incident. Maybe it was a dream.  Awful thing if the bishop heard of it.  Elders were supposed to show hospitality.  That had not exactly been friendly.\par
Marigold looked at him and silently went up to check on him.\par
Where was he?  \par
The \i Marine Times \i0 done, Kitten reached for an Epper Bible.  Joseph in Egypt. Somewhere in the back part of Exodus, maybe.  He frowned. Not there.  Numbers? No.  He sighed and went to the beginning and started with Genesis 1.  Too soon, so he skipped to 10, then 20, 30, 40. Ah. He pulled back to the beginning of Chapter 37 and began reading about Joseph. Maybe he could fling out a few Joseph-type questions to Deem Futz by way of conversation, until Dennis Opp showed up. It was 0630.  Where was Deem Futz?\par
He climbed the stairs.  The door was shut.  Kitten hesitated to open it, Deem Futz being a guest. The madness of last night almost made him blush.  Then the toilet flushed and the shower started.  Aaron's door was of course open -he had gone back up to Kansas City after dinner.\par
Kitten went back downstairs and sat in his recliner.  Genesis 41.  He read slowly these days, and he continued. \par
Finally he came down the stairs and Kitten rose and met him at the foot of the stairs.\par
"Good morning," Deem Futz said.\par
""Sleep well?" Kitten asked.  \par
"Well, yes, for the most part. Pancakes?"\par
"I will heat them up for you. I have one of those microwaves - you know, it runs by electricity.   And an egg."\par
"Yes, I know."\par
"The egg was freshly laid, I'm told, not two days old.  Brown, but most of ours are. Here is the coffee, dear.  I am afraid it has cooled down. Would you like me to make some more?"\par
"I will remind, you, Marigold, that Dennis Opp is coming, and he will need coffee. And I will keep him company." This was from the living room.\par
"Blueberries.  Beyond my dreams. I thank you.  I would coffee, some, thank you, when it is ready.  Do you have any milk?"  She gestured at the glass at his plate. \par
Deem Futz appreciated the whole milk, straight from a local dairy, the Ranch in fact, and enjoyed more strawberries on his pancakes.  Kitten sat and looked at him.\par
"Yes?" Deem Futz asked him.\par
"What do you think about the chief butler forgetting Joseph and leaving him in prison? Kind of a raw deal?"\par
"Oh, yes, definitely.  But Joseph is the one who said that what man meant for evil, God meant for good."\par
"You preachers like to harp on that.  That is in Genesis."\par
"Yes. Genesis 50:20.  God can bring good out of anything. Anything. So I have learned."\par
"We discussed the fact that you had a lot of difficulties getting through seminary. Illness, girlfriend, misunderstandings with people -"\par
"Getting jailed on false charges, more than once, getting formally charged with heresy, and financial difficulties.  But I learned something.  God brings you through."\par
Kitten thought of men he'd known who, the last time he'd seen them, were lying dead on a beach. Some of them had said they were trusting God to protect them.  And there they were dead on the beach.  Bitterness rose up in him, a bitterness he'd pushed down for years.\par
"Yes He does," Kitten managed to say.  \par
"It is hard not to be bitter, sometimes, with what life gives us.  The antidote, of course, is gratitude."\par
DId he look bitter? Was it that obvious?\par
"I came to Christ in 1954. I was driving my truck - that is what I was doing, I mean, for a living - and I heard Billy Graham on the radio.  I heard his whole freaking revival.  My life stank, even with a wonderful wife and kids and a house here and a steady job.  But I was hollowed out, empty, from the war - both wars - war will tear your soul out of you - and I told God that my life was worthless, but He could have it. And somehow the world changed.  I have not been the same, since, but I still battle with the old me.  I got a job with a local trucking company so I could be home with the wife and family and not get tempted with what over-the-road truckers get tempted with, where no one know what you are doing.  We joined the Reformed Baptist church here, that later merged with the Epper Church.  Then they wanted me to be an elder, for some reason, and here I am."\par
"Normally I don't talk so much."\par
"Dear, I have never heard you say so much at one sitting.  Now I have some questions for you-"\par
"Neither have I," Aaron added.  When had he arrived?\par
"Dear, let the man enjoy his breakfast. Now you go sit down in the living room and greet Dennis Opp when he comes."  Kitten retreated, clearly beaten.\par
"Aaron? Have you eaten?"\par
"Yes, thank you," he called from the living room,"But I will take coffee."\par
"Well, Deacon Muis, there will be coffee on in a minute.  I suppose Dennis Opp is here as well?  Here's the \i Globe\i0 .  The freaking rear-echolon- the, well, Marigold made me promise not to use that word - they stopped printing \i the Chevr\i0 on last year.  They say it is online, whatever that means.  Some people want the internet here.  We have always done just fine without it. But times change. The world has moved on more than we in Nicholls know.  The Corps seems to have the internet now. If it is good enough for the Corps, it is good enough for us.  But try as hard as I might I can't see Chesty Puller with a computer. No, sir. I think it makes someone do more butt-duty than real work, if you ask me. Dennis Opp is due, now. That is an on-time Marine for you."\par
As if on cue there was a banging on the door. It was Dennis Opp, with his cane and his pig, a full-grown, black and white hog . \par
"Thank you, Marigold, if you would be so kind as to take it into the living for me, we can get started."\par
It was 0550 after all.  Kitten took his recliner and Dennis the other big fat chair, leaving Muis and Futz on the couch.  Dennis' pet pig was snoring on the carpet at his feet.  This was Dennis' parade and he would have questions Kitten never, ever could have thought of.  Dennis was a retired Marine officer from the Judge Advocate's office and served as advisor to both the bishop and the seminary.  He had become familiar with the name 'Deem Futz', he told Deem, over the past few years, and was impressed by his perseverance and he, personally admired his endurance and determination.  Finally he had a chance to see him face to face, as his traveling was limited, gesturing at his leg.  Kitten knew there was more to that than the leg, but said nothing.  \par
With that, Dennis launched into a series of what seemed to Kitten to be highly technical questions related to theology and church administration, especially their intersection in ecclesiology.  Deem Futz would pause and then answer, sometimes in paragraphs to a particular question.  They were both flinging around Greek quotes and Latin and Kitten guessed some of it was Hebrew.  The pig snorted from time to time as if following along.\par
The pig got up and went over and sniffed Futz's hands, knees, shoes and all the rest of him that he could reach.  Futz scratched him behind the ears and smiled.\par
"We had some Hampshires in the settlement. I'd say this boy is over 500 pounds."\par
"Over six hundred."\par
"Hampshires tend to be pretty even tempered.  I've never known a nasty one."\par
"Attila likes you," Elder Opp said.\par
"Attila?"\par
"Attila the Hog." With that, the pig flopped himself down heavily between the couch and the coffee table, almost spilling the coffee and giving Futz and Muis very little leg room. He resumed his commentary on the discussion, snorting in appreciation or derision, like he understood everything,   Kitten knew that Dennis read theology to the animal, as reading aloud helped him understand it, and the pig always reacted. \par
Maybe he did better than Kitten at this, who, fortified with coffee and the early morning time, dared not fall asleep or appear to wander.  But what, exactly, were they talking about?\par
Celibacy. Kitten found something he could add, "Chesty Puller told a Marine in my hearing that if the Corps wanted you to have a wife, you will be issued one. I figure God is the same way, you know."\par
They both looked at him, as he had been silent.\par
"Chesty Puller?"  Futz looked blank.  At that, Deacon Muis had a fixed expression and looked down at his shoes.\par
"That's a Chesty Puller quote.  Chesty Puller? Lieutenant General Lewis B. Puller?"\par
Futz still looked blank.\par
"How the blank do you NOT know who Chesty Puller is? " Kitten drew back. "Well. You are not a Marine.  We decided we did not want a Marine. And we will not turn you into one, tempting as it may well be.  For us, it is a strong temptation to have a pastor in our own image.  There are many fine pastors who come out of the Marines, but lately we found that could be destructive, frankly: we got a Saul, a king after our own image.  We sought the wrong treasure.  But how the - how the - how do you not know who Chesty Puller was?"\par
Futz shrugged. Shrugged.\par
"You are not helping your case," Dennis said, "But my-our mission is not to fill you up with the lore of the Corps. Let me say before we return to theology," here he gave Kitten a look,"Chesty Puller was the most decorated, and is one of the most admired officers, if not the most admired officer, the Corps ever had. Best you read up on him sometime. Not today.  No one expects you to be a Marine.  We are not going to make you one.  It is just kind of a given here."\par
Attila looked at Futz reproachfully, as if to say any old hog knew who Puller was. The pig rose and went over  and snuffled around behind the chairs and then laid down with a house-shaking thump between the two Marines. Men who knew who Chesty was.  Attila stared at Futz in disapproval.\par
Kitten suddenly realized the amanuensis was there.  He was good.  Eppers prided themselves on being in the background, as obscure and silent and unnoticed as possible, and this man had succeeded this far.  He was sitting on a chair from the dining room, where he could hear everything.  So this was, in fact, a formal discussion, as an amanuensis would not be there if it was informal.  He was the only one without a tie.  He thought about going and getting one but that would be too obvious.  The paint in the room was fine. The floor shone, nicely polished. The furniture was beginning to show its age.  They had had this house since after the war - Marigold's parents were still there, and needed looking after, and he and Marigold moved in. It was a big old house, big enough for eight kids. \par
There was silence, in which the pig's trotters were moving like he was sleepwalking. Hogs dream.  People were looking at him.  \par
"What do you say, Elder Pfingster?"  Deacon Muis asked him.  It was clear he had entirely lost the thread of the discussion.\par
"Frankly, I haven't been listening."  In the silence  Attila's trotters click-click-clicked as he wandered  into the dining room, then the sound of him pushing chairs around, hoping for food on the floor.  He, too, was no longer interested in the discussion.\par
"I will repeat the question." Elder Opp looked with some amusement at Kitten, who now realized he had been asleep,"Do you prefer a Glock or a 45?"\par
"Nuts." This was something Kitten could answer.  He had been giving Dennis grief about buying a Glock 43 for ages. "A Glock 43, like some carry, is a dinky little thing. Overpriced. Single stack. Gimme a 45 any day. I wouldn't be caught dead taking that from my rack to the head at night."\par
"Nuts," said Elder Opp. \par
"Nuts," said Dennis. He slid the chamber open, dropped out the magazine, and offered it to Deem to look at. You know how to shoot, right?"\par
Deem accepted it. "Ah, no. I have never handled a gun before."\par
"Weapon. Call it a weapon. Or a pistol.  Or a sidearm.  In this town don't talk about your gun."\par
"Obscene term here," explained Aaron.  Deem looked surprised. \par
The pistol was heavier than he would have expected. It looked well made.  He looked it over,  hefted it. With a smile he handed it back.  Instantly Dennis put the magazine back in, closed it and it disappeared.\par
"Kitten, this draws faster than a 45 and you can shoot repeatedly without having to re-aim."\par
Deem realized Mr. Pfingster had just been called "Kitten."  No reaction, either. And it was crystal clear.\par
"With a 45 you don't NEED to fire twice."  He pulled a pistol out from behind him.  It looked massive in comparison to the Glock.  Deem saw that part of the handle was brownish orange, but by then it was concealed again.\par
"Kitten? I have heard you called that several times." \par
 "In Basic the DI one day told me I punch like a kitten. The name stuck. I went through the Marines as Kitten. It was better than "Julie". There was a fashion in this town when I was born to name boys after Roman generals. I still go by it. Deem, call me Kitten."\par
 "O-kay."  It was registering with Futz that Kitten was calling him Deem, not Futz.  Kitten's gut was shifting direction from opposition to this man.  He could not say why.  \par
"Deem, never assume any weapon in this town in not loaded. You will find them everywhere. We have a rifle by each door. Kids are taught early not to mess with firearms and they grow up around them.  Do you shoot?"\par
Deem said no, as he nervously looked around.  There, by the door, on a rack, was what he thought was a lightweight machine gun. Weapon.\par
"Safety's on. Fully loaded. Never, ever, assume the safety is on.  Never point a weapon at anyone - some people here are really fast, and the sherriff will believe it's self defense.  If try to shoot someone , chances are he will fire first.  In fact, never take a weapon out in public unless you intend to shoot someone then and there.  There have been a few times people from out of town have tried to rob people - they are buried separately in the cemetary." \par
They were surprised to learn that he had never held, let alone shot, a firearm. Kitten promised to take him out to the range.  And to get a haircut. And show him around Nicholls. Someone else could show him around that dilapildated trailer court out at the old POW camp. Bunch of losers. And the other trailer court on the east side of the highway, full of derelicts, drunks, dopeheads and desperadoes.  Kitten would show him around the good parts of the town.  \par
At 10:15 they were in front of Frank's barber shop on the Nicholls Square. Kitten explained that he would have taken his truck, but there were too many blind drivers, total idiots, dumb clucks who did not know the rules of the road and mountain-sized morons around the courthouse.  In the morning, especially, Kitten preferred to walk.  Then Frank was explaining that people came on schedule, that he had no openings, but then this was Kitten talking, and he could see what he could do. \par
At 10:15:15 Deem was in  Frank's old fashioned leather barber's chair.  Kitten stood, waiting. "We don't have all day, Frank," he pointed out.  The regular 10:15, John Smith, who hated his name, a man in his sixties who had sold out the Marine physique to an overindulgence to pasta in Kitten's view, was forced to wait.  "Whatever you want, Sarge," he stately flatly, and looked away.  He was some friend of his son's, but he could not place him past the name. \par
"Whatchawant?" Frank asked Deem Futz, and pointed at the poster: "We do Induction Cut, Crew Cut, High and Tight. Anything Else, Go to a Beauty Parlor. $3.00."  \par
"I'm spending the rest of my miserable days here. Take your freaking time, why don't you?" Frank helpfully added. \par
Deem had heard of a crew cut.  Two minutes later he and Kitten were walking along the street. Deem had not had to pay, him being a pastoral candidate and all.  Kitten watched him feeling his stubble and smiled.\par
"Where to, now?"\line\par
"That's the courthouse, there's the bank, and various offices and stores that explain themselves. But we are going over to Vic's Firearms, on Second Street."\par
Deem walked slowly, looking around.  Kitten found himself waiting for him.  He prided himself on how fast he walked.  Now someone stopped him and talked to him.  Strangers were unusual in Nicholls, especially away from Main Street. People knew each other. This was a woman - Kitten went back - it was Donna, Donna Kryper, of all people, who lived out at the Ranch after returning from the Marine Corps.  Kitten had never figured that one out.\par
He stood listening to the conversation after Donna and he nodded at each other. It seemed like Donna thought she had known Deem Futz her whole life - she was pouring her heart out to him, like women do, sometimes - and Kitten realized she was treating him like her pastor. He was not her pastor.  Kitten thought about stepping in and correcting that. But before he could, Deem said,"Perhaps this is not the ideal place to discuss this. I am sure there are people you can go to at the Ranch about this."\par
"That is a good idea. I will. Thank you for your time." And Donna was gone and they were walking again towards Vic's.  Deem Futz was stopped several more times, and the same thing was repeated. Kitten found himself irritated.  What was wrong with these people? This one was from Nicholls.  \par
That was the longest two block walk Kitten had ever taken in his life. Finally they reached Vic's.\par
"Kitten, my man, you want ammo for that anvil of yours, right?"\par
"Naw.  Deem Futz here needs to rent a weapon."\par
"Rent?"\par
"Uh-huh. While he's in town."\par
"Huh. Is he a Missouri resident?"\par
"Well, no."\par
"Kansas?"\par
"No.  Michigan."\par
"West Virginia, actually," Deem broke in.\par
"Now, son, you let me do the talking," Kitten said told him.  \par
"Is Vic here?"\par
"Yeah. He's in the back."\par
"Kitten! Causing trouble like usual. What can I do you out of?"\par
"Yeah. This is the situation..."\par
The conversation took a long time,way  too long according to Kitten.  Deem Futz needed a weapon while he was in Nicholls.  For some stupid reason Deem Futz didn't see it that way, and neither did Vic, or Mike, who worked there.   Deem Futz soon saw that this might stand in the way of things, if he stood against Kitten in this, and was silent.  Vic seemed to think Missouri law was on his side.  Kitten wound up buying a holster and a second firearm, a Kahr Arms P380, and one hundred rounds for it and another hundred rounds for his Colt.  \par
Deem reached for the little handgun but Kitten shook his head and Vic and Mike looked away.\par
"Keep your freaking fingers off my firearm," he growled.  Cash was slapped on the counter and change handed back.\par
When they were outside Kitten said that he thought Deem liked the weapon and maybe might borrow it for a few days.  Sensibly Deem Futz agreed.  Kitten thought it was really a lady's weapon and he might move up to something more solid if he got the job.\par
That fool Crazy Harry was in the diner in his usual spot when Kitten and Deem walked in. He started saying something nasty to Deem, but shut up when he saw he was packing, and also Kitten was following him.  Koelman and Vitringa and Witsius, those refugees from the Ranch, as they called it, were sitting off by themselves.  They'd moved into Nicholls, bought houses, were bringing up kids.  Their hair was longer and there was nothing Marine about them. Kitten was sad to see them.  Kitten noticed Hoornbeek, who had bought the house next to his own, was there, too. Nice guy, even if no Marine, so Kitten did not scowl at them. He didn't smile, either. \par
"Sarge!" Crazy Harry said,"looks like you got yourself a puppy."\par
"Just freaking shut up," Kitten told him, and he did.  Deem Futz said nothing.  The four Ranch-types looked around, surprised.  Hoornbeek, anyway, never raised his voice.  He had eight kids who were well behaved.  His wife was pure old-time Dutch Epper down to her married-bonnet and never, ever smiling.  But she dropped off an \i appelflappen\i0  every now and then, because Kitten had let it be known he liked them. He did something at Kikker Industries.  It was understandable why they had bought a house in Nicholls instead of living in a dilapildated trailer court.  They had had no response when he had said that.  They went to the church out there.  God knows how the Epper church in town was hurting, and they were natural candidates.  But that was their own fool business. \par
Hoornbeek actually got up and came over and shook his hand.  Kitten did not rise, and the man had the gall to say,"Don't get up." Kitten was not planning to. But Deem Futz did, and they talked for a minute. Hoornbeek was pleased to meet him and knew things would work out, because God had a plan and a destiny. With a God Bless, he returned to his table. The others at that table kind of looked over after Hoornbeek spoke a minute, but they did not come over. \par
The coffee was good.  This diner was on Main, not on the courthouse square, for reasons that went back a hundred years.  Kitten had heard the story but could not remember it.  Something about a sick horse.  And arguments over whether there was Viking gold buried out west of Nicholls somewhere. Or Aztec gold. Or plunder from the Civil War.  If there was any gold out there, those refugees from revivals would have found it. \par
"Coffee is good," Kitten said, sipping it, not thinking of anything else to say.  Deem nodded and shifted the weight of the holster a little. "You'll get used to it.  We'll go out to the Range this afternoon and I will teach you how to use that."\par
\par
\par
"That's Deputy Murren's car," Kitten said to Marigold,"I hope he's all right. It was seven-thirty. Kitten and Deem had driven separately to the Range.  Kitten saw him leave but figured he knew the way back to his house, where supper would be waiting.  But no Deem Futz, not a word.\par
It seemed Deem had taken a wrong turn and was half way to Henry County when he pulled over to go to sleep, and Deputy King, whose supervisors had confined him to driving the rural roads and only calling in things like damaged mailboxes and roadkill, or suspicious activity, and was told to never, ever take the initiative, had arrested Deem as a spy because his car was out-of-county and he had been so tired that he had fallen asleep, so King had decided he was drunk. And resisting arrest. And, for some reason, a spy.  Deputy King had relatives in powerful places and everyone had thought taking a rural beat would be a safe place for him, but Deputy Mullen shrugged when he said he could not predict the future.\par
You're ok, I hope."\par
"Yes. I lost my car."\par
"You lost it?"\par
"I parked it somewhere. I don't know where."\par
"So that's why the good deputy brought you here?"\par
Deem gave a grim smile. "I was arrested for drunk driving, resisting arrest, selling drugs and being a SPY."\par
Kitten looked at him. "Not bad for your first day. Welcome to Nicholls. Friendliest town on earth.  If you are a squared-away Marine, that is.  But we can be kind of rough on other folk."\par
"Thanks." \par
"Well, that would be the bishop." Kitten pointed to the house. "He's called three times."\par
 \par
He took the call.  Kitten and Marigold moved out of hearing range. \par
Afterwards Deem Futz looked thoughtful.\par
"Do you need something to eat?" Marigold asked, and he brightened.\par
Kitten thought about what that conversation with the bishop must have been, as there had been a number of phone calls and discussions about Deem Futz already, mainly from people who had met him talking him up to the elders.  It seemed he had met twenty or thirty people that afternoon in Nicholls, before he went and lost his car, and they all wanted to tell him their stories, and they all walked away, for some reason, impressed.\par
Kitten had stayed out of the discussions as much as possible.  He was somewhat disturbed by the fact that he was coming around to liking Deem and respecting him.  He wanted to have some reasons, and somewhere there were some, but he could not put his finger on them.\par
That evening was as bad as Halloween, with people showing up and wanting to meet Deem Futz.  Kitten appreciated peace and quiet in the evening, but it was cooler. Marigold made punch, which was fine, but there was no alcohol, which was not.  If he wanted to drink he could go - no, he didn't, he was past that.  So there was no trouble, and that was that. He stood there glowering at Millie Brakel, \i formerly\i0  of the Epper Church, now attending the church over in Clinton, as she ripped up Pastor Hartmann. She and her husband had gone to him for some counseling and he had listened to their struggles in their marriage and said, "Stupid is as stupid does. That is your problem. Now THINK before you open your mouth next time and it will be smooth sailing."  That was the last time they saw the Nicholls Epper Church, or Pastor Hartmann. And another time - but he was interrupted by a teenage punk and his friend who wanted to hear about the war.  Now he was a hero and he looked at their shiny faces and thought of dead Japanese their ages, some of whom he had killed. "War is hell," he said. "Tell us about how you got one of your medals," one of them said. He said better men than he was had died and he lived and got a medal.  That was it. Someone saw him who could write it up.  He just did his job.  When they were in the Corps, they should shut up and do what they were told to do when they were told to do it, and they would be all right. They might be killed, but they would be respected.\par
There was too much talk and this was getting late, so he excused himself in his house full of people and went upstairs.\par
He sat on the bed, door closed.  He hated crowds, confinement, and struggled with claustrophobia. Men crammed in a landing craft were a dandy target.  He had seen too much.  Hartmann had wanted him as an elder, so he was an elder.  He wished he could have a quiet evening but half the town was downstairs. It was a crowd, a target.  He checked his 45. It was loaded.  He paced back and forth, staying out of clear sight of the window where he was backlit. \par
When he was calmer, he went back downstairs.  Hardly any of the same people were there and Nikki had replenished the punch that Marigold was serving. She smiled at him across the room. \par
"You are 'Kitten' Pfingster?" this was a teenage girl and her friend. She was pretty, actually both were. "If I may ask - my name is Judy, Judy Koelman, and this is Sarah, Sarah Berg - we have always wondered.  You are the war hero everyone talks about?"\par
Kitten grew three inches and thirty years younger. "In Basic my DI told me I punch like a kitten. The name stuck.  Better than Julie.  My real name is Julius. Back then, there was a run on people calling their sons the names of Roman generals. They are all dead but me, now : Augustus, Anthony, Cincinnatus, Lucius, Scipio, Vipsanius. Others, even a Hannibal. Pompey. And Aeneas, Agammemnon, Ulysses, Ajax - all the old names, people themselves forgotten."\par
"Why, I never heard of them!" Sarah said.\par
"The originals or the ones I knew?"\par
"Both, actually."\par
"Yeah. They don't teach history any more."\par
He glanced up.  There were Biederwolf and Vos, Alford, Godet and Hodge.  They were standing, oddly, like his high school classmates of the same names had stood.  It had been summer, 1941 and there had been a farewell party in this very room before they all went off to Basic.  Now their relatives were standing as they stood, laughing as they had laughing.  Kitten had been the only one who had come back.  They were all seventeen, all wanting to go into the Corps.  There was a hollow feeling - there was currently no Pfingster their age. At least not in Nicholls.\par
"Are you ok?" Sarah asked. \par
"I am fine," Kitten said, looking into the past.  He had not paid a high a cost as some. He could endure this. To honor their memories, if nothing else.\par
Both girls were going into the Corps.  Basic at Parris Island, of course. They both wanted to go into military intelligence.  Sarah was good at languages.  Despite their charms, Kitten excused himself and went to the powder room on the main floor.  He had to wait a minute, and then went in and washed his face.  There were even more people in the family room.  He recalled that Deem Futz, for some strange reason, was last seen out on the porch, not even inside the houseful of people who wanted to see him.  Kitten wondered if people were keeping off his lawn.  \par
\par
Dawn was over and Kitten and Deem Futz were sitting in front of the old Epper Church, its drive blocked off by traffic barriers like  highway workers use. The drive looked like it was still in good shape as it wound its way up the hill. The parking lots were also good, and it had not been sold. Yet.  \par
"Stay in the car. Just look."\par
Deem looked at the sign: Nicholls Episcopal Presbyterian Church. Pastor Hartmann. Services at 0700, 0900, 1100 Sundays. Are you going to hell? ALL ARE WELCOME.    Deem did not comment on it.   \par
There was a sense of desolation about the quiet campus.  \par
\cf1\par
\cf0 "That was ours until Pastor Hartmann took over.  We had it free and clear until then. He insisted on renovations - him and the Decorating Committee - and we took out a loan, figuring that we would pay it back.  And then we borrowed for the Evangelism Campaign. And we supported the seminary with a loan against this building. We had a regular attendence of 1,600 on a Sunday morning, often higher, both town people and people who would make the drive. He allowed no argument, no compromise.  He demanded everyone subscribe to every point of the the 1905 Epper Statement of Faith without exception or compromise.  As you know, we are usually a lot more relaxed than that, even a place wound as tight as Nicholls can be.  A lot of people left over that.  He demanded high performance. Either you met standards or you were out. No weaklings tolerated.  He told people that in sermons, that if they came for counseling they would hear it straight and he would not put up with sickos with problems. He believed in what we call adversarial preaching.  I expect you were taught an entirely different model of preaching.  There are a lot of hard feelings.  He overdid it.  You don't talk to people who have not made the Corps like that. Period.  Even though the Corps is beloved, we finally realized we do not want a tightly-wound Marine as a pastor.  Then we realized it would be better to find someone who had never been in the Corps, which is unheard of in the history of this church.  No one in leadership in this town, in fact, has not been made a Marine.  The question on the table, if you don't mind me being very frank, is whether you are an overreaction.  I am afraid it is going to be an adjustment for all of us.  A lot of people love this church - you can expect to see a packed house in the building we are renting.  People want to see the church back again.  They are hoping for a return to the golden days of the church."\par
"Well, you can never go back. You can only go forward."\par
"That is true.  Pastor Schmitt was pastor here for forty years.  He died walking to his car one Monday morning.  His wife found him there. There were no warnings. He is the pastor people will compare you to.  He knew his Greek and Hebrew and his systematic theology. My, he could preach. And he knew people, knew how to handle them, had a good word for everyone and a gentle way. We all miss him. We can be hard people but he had the skin of a rhino and could take it.  He could lead this bunch of bums. Lt. Schmitt lost his right foot on Guadalcanal and spent most of the war supervising drill instructors at Parris Island. He was tough as nails and a real leader. A man's man. A Marine's Marine.  The kind of man you would follow wherever he led.  He kept the team together and got the job done.  Bluntly, you are not him."\par
"No, I am not."\par
"That is fine. Don't compare yourself to him. Enough other people are going to. I think. You're going to think I am changing the subject, but I'm not, now.  Everybody wants to build a Utopia. Nicholls was founded by people who wanted to build a Utopia. Those people out at the Ranch are the same way. Pastor Schmitt, in his way, and then Pastor Hartmann.  We thought he was a younger version of Pastor Schmitt. We were wrong.   Everybody wants to build a perfect church. To bring us back to apostolic togetherness. Even those Catholics, they are trying for it."\par
"Do you know how many Utopian communities have been started in the US of A since its beginning? A ton. The Shakers. Zion, Illinois. Those New Haven perfectionists who caused us so much heartache.  Even the Mormons and their move to Salt Lake. Every time someone comes to the US they think they are coming to the land of milk and honey.  They will be golden from that day forward.  The Democrats and the Republicans and the Socialists all  think that if they get their way it will be golden.  I am too old for a lot of this stuff. I have seen too much, lived through too much.  You know what I want?"\par
Deem said he did not know.\par
"I don't want you to make false promises. I don't want you to say more than you can deliver. I have had it up to here" here he slashed his hand above his head  "with dreams and visions and glorious pie-in-the-sky promises that never show up. Heaven can wait. We live in the now and it can be hard and it will kill you. Be a realist, Deem. These people have been hurt. Pastor Hartmann left us in a world of hurt and the wound is still bleeding.  Hear this if you hear anything: if we, the six elders of this church, think you are going to hurt the people, we will throw you out.  We will talk to the bishop and explain. Now, I have had some long conversations with him and I know you are the only candidate.  That is ok. But you may be an overreaction.  I will leave it at that."  He looked like he was getting angrier by the second.\par
"That is all I have to say. Except one more thing."\par
"What's that?"\par
"The consensus of the elders, right now, is that you are not worth -  but you are the best we have. The only.  The bishop thinks you  are - never mind. So we will work with you."\par
"That's very reassuring." Kitten wondered what the bishop had told Deem.  "I really think that-"\par
A car pulled up.  The driver rolled down the window. "Are you the new pastor?"\par
Deem glanced at Kitten and said,"So far..."\par
"That's good enough.  My name is Jan. Jan Adams.  I need your help.  You see, my husband - that is we are separated? He has a drinking problem? And I went to his apartment and he was just throwing up in the toilet? And drinking beer? I'm hoping you could help?"\par
"Well, I don't know what I can do."\par
"Please. Come with me."  And Deem got into the car with her, and off they went.\par
Well, he will have plenty of work, Kitten thought.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\strike\par
\par
\par
}
 