{\rtf1\fbidis\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f1\fnil Tahoma;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset177 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green77\blue187;\red255\green0\blue0;\red155\green0\blue211;\red255\green255\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\ltrpar\ul\b\f0\fs22\lang1033 Table of Contents\ulnone\b0\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\par
Introduction\par
\par
\b Part One\b0\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\tab 1. The Diamond\i   \cf1  \cf2\i0\par
\par
\cf0\tab 2. Beginnings\cf2\par
\cf3\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\cf0 3. That Golden Age \cf1\i  \cf2\i0\par
\cf3\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\cf2  \par
\cf0 4. Order from Chaos\cf2\par
\cf0\i\par
\i0 5. Marcel Brown\cf2\par
\cf0\par
\b Part Two\b0\par
\par
1. Isaiah Poller \par
 \i  \cf3\par
\cf0\i0 2. Deem Arrives in Nicholls\par
\par
3. Deem at Pfingsters'\par
\i\par
\i0 4. Deem Comes to The Ranch\cf3\i\par
\cf2\par
\cf0\i0 5. Tony\cf2\par
\par
\cf0 6.  Return to Snake Woods\cf1\i\par
\cf0\i0\par
\b Part Three \b0\par
 \par
1. Mayor Southwark\cf2\i\par
\par
\cf0\i0 2. Nicholls is Taken \cf2\i\par
\cf0\i0\par
3. Ellen Bread \tab\tab  \highlight4\par
\highlight0\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar  \par
 \par
\ul\b PART ONE\ulnone\b0          \ul\b\par
\par
Chapter 1   The Diamond\ulnone\b0   \par

\pard\ltrpar\li720  \par

\pard\ltrpar In 1864 a large diamond was found near Murfreesboro, Arkansas by the local farmhand  Phelps who never said where he found it. He brought it to the banker Johnson in Murfreesboro, who described it as the size of a man's hand, but took no photographs.  The Phelps Diamond, as it was known, was swiftly stolen by the Blythewood Gang.   Phelps went off to fight for the South and never returned. We know of it only from the banker's letter to his brother, a jeweler in Little Rock who traveled to Murfreesboro to examine it but never got a good look at it, having arrived after dark, and a brief newspaper article in the Gazette that appears to have been based on information from the jeweler, who also witnessed the robbery.  According to one story, it was probably in the wagons of treasure that were recovered from the Blythewood gang when they were caught - their first hideout had been found and they were moving their treasure to a new one in Nicholls County when they were caught with their\cf2  \cf0 wagons, but the diamond was never found, as the wagons were not searched, only brought to the courthouse.  The wagons had been hauled to the Harrisonville courthouse for sorting.  The Muellers, local ranchers hired to guard the wagons, snuck out during the riot that occured when an angry mob broke into the jail and lynched Blythewood and some of his associates.  Searchers found only the womenfolk and the younger children on the Mueller Ranch, the older boys being with the men.  Pa Mueller and his grown sons had stopped and shown them the wagons at a distance,  and said they had to go hide the treasure. They did not say where they were going, and the women did not even know which direction they took.  Some of the wagons were found empty. One suggestion is that somehow the Blythewood gang had managed to switch places with the Muellers, and the gang made off with their treasure and the Muellers were the ones actually lynched. No one knows.  Search parties found no one who had seen Pa Mueller or any of his sons again, nor the treasure, including the diamond. The remaining Muellers, then four women, two girls and one boy not old enough to have gone with the men, moved to Minnesota.  They never sold the land, which caused some speculation. The rumor was that they explained to a sherriff in Minnesota that they were hoping for the menfolk to return.  The men never did. Another story is that the Muellers were secretly part of the Blythewood gang and the treasure was stored on their property, which was the entire west half of Nicholls County.  Several other stories rose during the years, all stating that there was treasure hidden on the property, whether from a wagon train traveling from New Mexico to Independence that was ambushed and burned by the Pawnee,or  treasure somehow smuggled onto the property during World War 2 by Nazis when there was a Prisoner of War camp there.  Even wilder rumors were that the Inca had hidden their treasure here from the Spanish, and that the Vikings had buried a chieftain here with a sizeable amount of gold, jewels and expensive artifacts.  There was, however, no evidence of any of this. Despite years of determined searching and digging, no treasure had ever been found. Not one piece of gold, not one jewel, not one piece of leather or box that would suggest there might be treasure.  In places, particularly just south of the old Mueller farmstead, during the 1920s and 1930s, bulldozers had taken the soil away down to bedrock and left massive piles of dirt.  \par
\par
The property was thoroughly searched repeatedly, particularly by members of the Johnson family.  The only area not searched was Snake Woods, the habitat of a particularly venomous snake that feasted on the birds that would take refuge in the trees there. Snake Woods had a reputation for killing many people and had never been entered. Teenagers from Nicholls were particularly fond of daring each other to get close to the Woods.  Every few years there would be a fatality.  No one could possibly have gone in there to hide any treasure, so even the treasure seekers left it alone.\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 2   Beginnings\ulnone\b0    1950s-1966\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0  \par
Paul de le Grande, former carpenter and seminary grad, visited Jake Profim after his church unexpectedly failed after two weeks.  Jake invited him to live on his newly acquired property, forty acres including the remaining buildings of the World War 2 POW camp that had been deeded to him by a Mueller family of Minnesota (they had read his book). \par
\par
Jake held up a letter. "I received this at church Sunday. It's from a Mabel - no last name. I think I know who it is. A young woman came up to me and told me she 'felt called to pray' for me.  Her name, anyway, is Mabel.  So if you have any prayer requests, I guess you can ask Mabel."\par
\par
"Is she one of those people who maintain she is called to prayer ministry?"\par
\par
"I think she is, and does.  A little prayer won't hurt, now will it? If God calls someone to pray, are you going to object?"\par
\par
"Well, no, it just sounds a little weird or something.  We are all called to pray. Not just a few."\par
\par
"True, but some pray more than others."\par
\par
"God is no respecter of persons. Why should He answer one person's prayer more than another's?"\par
\par
"Well, I guess if the other person didn't pray, there would be nothing to answer."\par
\par
"Right. Okay...Let me talk to Jeannie and see if we can come up with some prayer requests for this Mabel person."  \par
\par
 Paul and his wife Jeannie moved onto it. He built two cabins, a stable and barn (towards Jake's dream to raise horses on the land). Paul enjoyed the peace; Jeannie, his wife, got him involved in the Nicholls Epper church and took on the role of the 'pastor's wife, as Jake's wife was both consumed with children and not very healthy.  Jake gave him the men's Bible study to lead, which quickly dwindled and ended. He preached once as well, being a pastor, and he led the service once, but in both situations he was not asked again, as the decision of the elders. \par
\par
Paul saw Jake excommunicated and laicized, which spurred on Jake's road ministry, as he was now free of pastoral duties and able to reach non-Eppers.  Paul continued to build.  He hired himself out as a carpenter, still living on the land. After all, the buildings needed watching. He looked at the few remaining buildings from the old POW camp but preferred to build new, not rehab, and he thought the old farmhouse, barn and outbuildings far beyond repair.  \par
\par
Paul found the diamond in the old oak tree that had fallen: someone must have hidden it long ago in a hole that had grown over before the tree died.  Neither Jake nor Paul wanted anything to do with the diamond; they dropped it down the old outhouse and shoveled debris in after it.  They never told anyone about this. It was not the sort of thing either was interested in and they promptly forgot about it.\par
\par
On the road Jake offhandedly told an Epper concerned about his case before the Committee on Doctrinal Purity that all exiles were welcome at his place west of Nicholls.  That started a rumor that Jake was starting a refuge city of exiled Eppers.  Jake preached a series of messages on the road of the city of God as a refuge city, which was widely misinterpreted to be him founding a refuge city on his land.  Others heard it was to be a charismatic community, still others a center for praise and worship, and others that it was to be a hybrid settlement of all Christians, where Eppers and non-Eppers would live in Spirit-powered unity.  \par
\par
The Dunbars were among the first to arrive.  She brought two over the road trucks full of junk that she said the Lord had told her to bring.  Her husband, fired from his position at the \i Epper Epistle\i0  due to a favorable article he wrote on Jake Profim, and then exiled, began working at the local paper in Nicholls. \par
\par
Aaron Boom, inventor and fixer, arrived within a few days of her. He managed to build useful things out of scrap in a singularly amazing way. On his first night he had a disturbing dream about heading south from the camp and digging up thirty pieces of silver in a field covered with blood.  \par
\par
Wilson, suburban American, was drawn by the novelty and had been kicked out of his Baptist church for speaking in tongues.  He admired the Epper work ethic but somehow managed to avoid working whenever he could, and grumbled when he did work.  He was always angling for one of the houses already built.  His wife Judy however pitched in - she had a degree and experience in hotel management and knew how to feed large numbers of people, something Jeannie later found invaluable.  \par
\par
The first service on site was after Jake had been cast out of the denomination.  Half the Epper church in Nicholls followed him and it was outdoors, liturgical, without electricity, on a sunny morning in the sun.  The next week there was a big tent they had church under.  An early division into two services was when the Russians showed up, Jake being Dutch Epper, and requested the women sit on the left and the men on the right, instead of the mixed seating.  They agreed to do a Dutch-style service and a Russian-style service.  American charismatics arrived who wanted a more contemporary service, and they took the bold step of abandoning the liturgy for a more charismatic style one, yet retaining all the elements of the liturgy.  It initially satisfied no one but with time they came to something they could all live with, and the services became open ended, meaning worship started sometime before dawn and continued until after sunset, with the sermon, Communion and prayer in there somewhere, generally in the later morning.  The Russians relented from segregated seating and a few other matters they had insisted on.  For several months the sermon was delivered once in Koine and then again in English, but it did not seem a good use of time and they went with an English only service.   \par
\par
\ul\b Chapter  3   That Golden Age \cf2\ulnone\b0\par
\cf0  \par
In 1976 the arrivals had become a torrent.  Many exiled Eppers - and the Committee on Doctrinal Purity was very busy purifying the Eppers of every possible heresy, especially the popular charismatic movement - arrived, but others from every background, purpose and interest, not all of which purposes were good, came. People looked for a home after being exiled from their own settlements, or looked for a Holy Ghost revival, a good time, or a refuge city, whatever that meant. Six thousand  (it could have been anywhere between five to ten thousand and it fluctuated) people arrived.  Everyone was on the Midbar in a close-set tent city with parking on the east side, but Eppers formed settlements and departed, some settling elsewhere on the Ranch. The Midbar was the plantless hard-packed plain, a rectangle that had been the site of the Prisoner of War Camp during World War Two. \par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\par

\pard\ltrpar The Ranch entered into wild, full charismatic mode, a Woodstock West, with little order. Jake was in charge, although almost never there, and Paul was looked to, if anyone was, as the leader.  But Paul did not lead. People at the Nicholls Church remembered Paul's demonstrated lack of giftedness to lead; why Jake chose him to lead was a mystery.  Paul was in full 'reliance on the Holy Spirit' in human passivity mode. \par
\par
Paul wanted quiet but instead unexpectedly hosted thousands. Paul was comfortable one on one but not much more than for a group of about six and his sights never were raised above his immediate project, never long-term, never with a consideration of what the impacts of a decision would be for the group: he didn't really grasp anything at a corporate level and preferred to avoid making decisions.   He 'depended on the Lord' for food to arrive, etc.  It worked. Paul had been praying for say bread and then bread would arrive for people.  Paul did not want to pull an Ishmael and presume his own leadership, but decided to wait on the Lord, and recognized John when he came, one of the first to.  \par
\par
God came through but it was a disaster from a human viewpoint, always on the point of total collapse and near-chaos, yet people self-organized and discovered their gifts in a way that would not be possible under hierarchial leadership.  But the self-organizing was surprisingly effective and responsive to needs. Paul regarded it as the church unleashed, citing Frank Tillapaugh's book "Unleashing the Church", just out in 1982 and widely read on the grounds. \par
\par
With the words from Jeremiah 16:14, "therefore will I cast you forth out of this land into the land that ye have not known, neither ye nor your fathers; and there shall ye serve other gods day and night; for I will shew you no favour.", Bishop A. Keith Berg of Ohio  had been declared a heretic and exiled from the denomination, from his settlement, stripped of office and laicized.  He had nowhere to go until he remembered that Jake Profim had established a place out west, and so he and his family arrived after the most painful time of his life. \par
\par
He had put all that behind him, forgetting it to press on into what God had for him now when he arrived.  Paul warned him to pray before going to sleep, particularly on his first night.  Nonetheless that night he had a powerful dream of standing on the lip of a deep, fire-filled pit, out of which came large, unclean frogs, lamentations and cries of despair, and then the rock he was standing on slipped, and he woke, with muscle jerks. \par
\par
Keith Berg saw that decisions were needed and also he found himself doing the actual pastoral work, which he recognized Paul was not capable.  In his view Paul was happy not deciding anything until it was almost too late and letting things happen as much as possible without making decisions "things work themselves out".  Keith Berg deferred to Paul as a result of a rather vague conversation with Jake. Keith Berg found himself, a bishop of many years experience, deferring to a pastor with less than two weeks experience whom he himself would have instantly removed had he had a choice. Inwardly he struggled with doubts: he himself was much more proactive and choleric than the thoroughly passive and phlegmatic-sanguine Paul, who was perfectly happy with how things were going as "all things are in God's hands and timing." Is there such a thing as being too content? \par
\par
"Society cannot function without form and motivation" - F.A. Schaeffer.  "This society has neither," Keith Berg observed, first to Paul and then to Jake. Neither had ever been exposed to Edelmann's "Theory of Society" where Edelmann had laid out how a proper Epper society should function.  "Theory of Society" was seldom heard of until being considered for an episcopal chair, and Edelmann had written in a difficult Latin dialect and was found of ate scholastic language: the work had never been translated, if that was even possible,  but surveyed all attempts Edelmann knew of at society structures, ancient up until his own time in the early 1700s.  Edelmann was not always correct, but his insights were always worth considering.  Keith Berg found himself reading and re-reading Edelmann.  Ivan Ivanovich Bishop Smirnov on Edelmann: "Lycurgus' genius was not as stated by the Spartans with their emphasis on austerity, arms and equality, but raither in the establishment of that novel invention, the Senate as a counterweight between a pure democracy and a pure monarchy." Edelmann never saw the American Constitution, and there was speculation as to what he would have thought.  Keith Berg wished he had either Edelmann himself or Smirnov or van Dyke, his two commentators who were often read instead, although neither was available in English, here. Keith Berg did not wish to create a society but rather establish one, one that ran, instead of what he saw as the present chaos. He knew his limits and the constraints both Jake and Paul put him under.\par
\par
Keith Berg considered his condemnation and exile not his own fault, but a trend among the Eppers that has gone on for generations.  They had gone off the Biblical standard. It was ironic that he decided this in a place that was separatist as what he found himself in. How could this place continue to be separate and still be the light to the world? What sins were they still committing? What errors were they holding to? He kept a journal of his thoughts, especially the ones he felt he could share with no one but God, written in a  an archaic Epper-Dutch dialect, one van Dyke would have used.  He had been exiled, yes, and he was standing on his integrity, without which he was nothing.  But what was it that he was still doing that was sin? He prayed for revelation and repentence, not only for himself but for all those who came. How were they justifying their sin by claiming it to be the will of God, both sinning and take it to that arrogant step of claiming God was leading them into sin? God tempts no one, he knew, and there seemed to be a fog, a lack of clarity, an indeterminedness about all this. \par
\par
Keith Berg struggled with a vulnerability: he was really accountable to no one on earth. He missed the familar Epper structure of a presbytery, churches, and entire denomination. Neither Paul nor Jake saw any need for any structure.  Berg tried to get either one as an accountability partner, but neither was interested.  Nor did he have any clout with which to enforce discipline. Only persuasion, which he had, and a moral authority, which some people were aware of but others were blind to.  He was tempted to leave, but he had nowhere to go and he felt some responsibility for these people who need shepherding. He was tempted to build the ideal Epper society, but that was what the denomination's purpose, and "look what is happening with the CDP". He did not want to create another one. \par
\par
Paul and Jake wanted a society of healthy relationships, reflecting redemption, with organization following, not a dead structure everyone must fit into.  Keith was more comfortable with familiar, tried-and-true structures.  Paul wanted to see what would organically grow here rather than be iimposed in a top-down manner. Keith was willing to work with this, but also wanted a lot more in the way of structure. Neither Paul nor Jake were familiar with Edelmann - they looked with suspicion on documents that had guided the Eppers, given the circumstances.  They needed divine, not human wisdom; what did Edelmann offer there?  Keith did not know how to reply to that. \par
\par
Some took Sabbath as a day of rest and were offended when others did not. Paul regarded the controversy in the light of Romans 14, but one side held it as a legalistic Pharisaic distinction, and the other that they were antinomian. Keith's sermon series on freedom of conscience helped some. They had to accept different ways of doing things without condemning those who disagreed with them.  As Eppers typically lived in settlements where there was no disagreement, this was a new thing. Prophetic words condemning Sabbath breaking and condemning legalism were stopped - they had begun to appear.  \par
\par
\par
Keith witnessed miracles, some spectacular but none with real medical documentation, and Berg  wondered if God was truly present, as Epper thought at the time was that God was so hidden as to be almost absent in action or appearance. How could this really be a day of visitation? Why would God reveal Himself here and now? The Hidden God revealing Himself via miracles, healing, tongues and prophecies?  God remains hidden and reveals Himself at the same time, the chief means that eclipses all others being the life of Christ, the crucifixion, death and resurrection and ascension.  These 'charismatic revelations' are radiation of that same life, when true.  God Himself reveals Himself only indirectly: He is not seen but His actions are observed; as nature declares His glory, so do these things.  So Keith thought. The provision was clearly supernatural.  They never went hungry or unclothed or without shelter.  Keith Berg was humble enough to yield to Paul without rancor. \par
\par
Signs and wonders, prophecies, spiritual songs, etc. were everywhere. Some people arrived who were clearly out of order.  They tended to get sent back to where they came from by Keith Berg, who was embarrassed internally at what he thought was bluffing, as he actually had no authority to do anything.  Paul never wanted to exile anyone but have a big tent without exception.  They simply never discussed the fact that Keith Berg was exiling people.  It worked better that way. He would discuss a problem case with Paul and Jake, if he could, and get a vague consensus that so-and-so must be dealt with. \par
\par
Mark Adams, attracted due to the Woodstock aspect, sleep-walked one night and woke up at the top of the grade down into Snake Woods.  He said he had taken a step into nothing, with the sense of falling instantly into eternal torment and fire, with people screaming all arond him as he bobbed up and down in a lake of fire, gasping the hot air when he surfaced but immediately being pulled under. "It seemed so real.  There could be such a place.  If I die I don't know that I won't wind up there. What must I do to be saved?" he asked Keith, who had the answer. He wondered if Mark was mocking him, but he led Mark to Christ.  Keith watched him to see if there was Christian fruit - there was: he began attending Bible study and left behind some of the questionable people he had been hanging around with. \par
\par
Alice Crowley had a similar experience, but she was woken by a voice before she got to the edge of the slope down. "Go no further this way; turn your life around." It was an authoritative voice, a loving voice, a powerful voice, and she woke and looked around but was alone.  She went back to the settlement and talked to Jeannie, who led her to the Lord. \par
\par
Tim Smirnoff said he did not dream, or did not remember his dream.  But he found himself awake in the middle of the night on the edge of that slope, and he said he had just heard a voice say, "Verily you come to me." Then he woke up, staggered back, and ran back to the camp, terrified. \par
\par
Many people had troubling dreams, nightmares, particularly on first arriving: some were of hell, some were of an immense secret awaiting them in Snake Woods that would lead them to extreme wealth.  Sometimes sleepwalkers were found wandering around the old farmstead.  They typically said that they were dreaming, looking for something, but what it was or where it was, they did not remember.\par
\par
\par
Poltergeists moved things when no one was around. In particular clothing would be knocked to the floor, cots and  lanterns overturned and the fuel-oil spilling, and books were found open, face down on the floor, but never a Bible. It particularly affected people on the south side of the camp without Bibles.  Many of the non-Christians left after scary dreams, these incidents, or other seemingly supernatural unpleasantness. Some moved to the north side of the camp.   \par
\par
Economically, there were wild swings, but then no one was keeping track of offerings, income or expenditures: Paul's view was that the Lord Will Provide. He did, but it was a scramble for people like Jeannie, a planner at heart and organizer of the meals.  They did not starve or go without shelter or medical care or clothing, but they came close. They kept the money in a pile in the stable, and sometimes it was down to a few pennies, more than once empty for weeks at a time. Later the pile was restarted in the Hanger. The thought of keeping money under the same roof he slept under was repugnant to Paul, who influenced others. \par
\par
\par
\lang9 Wild-haired, unwashed, eating insects, grubs and herbs off the land, the Elijah Company   arrived, self-styled prophets. The old POW camp evoked Jeremiah 9:11 to them: they saw Jerusalem and a Levitical refuge city, seizing on 'the refuge city' and allowing it to dominate their vision of what the place was.  Later "the ancient wells are reopened" - the old POW camp wells.   They developed the annoying habit of interpreting everything that happened as a manifestation of Biblical prophecy. They also prophesied that this was where Christ will return and be seen first. They began putting on white robes and assembling at dawn on the hilltop across the quarry from the old camp. That is the spot, they said, and they went through a morning ritual of putting their full armor on for spiritual warfare: this caught on and was popular, particularly among formerly suburban charismatic women.   The Company spent much of their time in far corners of the property, sleeping under the stars and even out in the rain and snow.  Many found them attractive but did not join in some of their more extreme ascetic practices; some joined them but quit when they found they lacked the endurance to sleep outside in all weathers on insects and field-herbs. Where they came from is still unknown. They were difficult to have a conversation with, as all they talked about was the Lord. Or demons. They said the whole property was infested, particularly around Snake Woods, but they cast out demons everywhere as they saw demons everywhere they went. They saw Satan as the Lord of earth and the church as God's invasion force to take back demonically occupied land. Their favorite verses were such as 1 John 3:8 'The Son of God appeared for this: that He might destroy the works of the devil.' And Eph 6:12 'For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms.' Others retorted that the battle-field was the human heart, not the physical land, and they were then accused of platonism. They regarded everyone outside their ranks as spiritually compromised, sold out to the world and the devil and the flesh. They took Jesus' command in Luke 9 literally:"When Jesus had called the Twelve together, he gave them power and authority to drive out all demons and to cure diseases, 2 and he sent them out to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal the sick. 3 He told them: \f1\ldblquote\f0 Take nothing for the journey\f1\emdash no staff, no bag, no bread, no money, no extra shirt. 4 Whatever house you enter, stay there until you leave that town. 5 If people do not welcome you, leave their town and shake the dust off your feet as a testimony against them.\rdblquote  \lang1033  \f0 They did drive out demons and heal, and they said the reason other Christians were weak was because they failed the apostolic command. They also held to Luke 10:1-12.  Their number was somewhere between forty and one hundred - they were scattered in small bands and did not use their own names, and sometimes changed names, so they were impossible to count.  They never stayed long in one place.  One band would come, and then another, and the first would leave. Nicholls looked on them as unwelcome beggars. \par
\lang9\par
In sharp opposition to them were the Am Dabar, the Prophetic People, who prophesied against the sin in the camp and said the place would be destroyed by fire and sword.  When someone died by getting too close to Snake Woods, they added by snakes, as with Israel in the desert.  They called for holiness, but rejected fasting as carnal.  They held all-night prayer meetings every night, Scripture readings all night, and rejected much of the charismatic music and worship in the camp as carnal as well.  When the Elijah Company went out to await the Lord, they would not make eye contact with Am Dabar people: they regarded each other as full of the devil, spiritually compromised and sold out to the devil.  That was not the attitude of their leaders as much as their followers.  Keith Berg attempted to reconcile them with each other, but each group said the other would have to give up some of their positions, which they would not do.  Am Dabar regarded the Elijah Company as being formally heretical, and the Elijah Company regared Am Dabar as \i malakos\i0 , spiritually soft. The inference of them being the passive partners in homosexual acts, with which the word was typically associated, was not missed.   \par
\par
On one occaision there was agreement between them.  Paul de le Grande, of all people, called for a Jericho walk around Snake Woods, binding the enemy and telling him to be quiet. Several thousand people marched around Snake Woods once a day for six days in silent prayer, accompanied by the seven shofars that had been found, and on the seventh day they marched seven times around it, and then those who had trumpets and shofars blew them, with the drumming of drums and the clashing of cymbals and everyone gave "a mighty shout".  Many of the Elijah Company joined with Am Dabar in that Jericho Walk around Snake Woods.  After that the nightmares, sleepwalking and poltergeists stopped.  Some people still had nightmares on occaision, but of a more natural kind.\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\par

\pard\ltrpar\lang1033 Joyce Dunbar found every dumped couch, washer, dryer, etc., in Nicholls and surrounding counties and people hauled it to the Ranch, where some were fixed, some cannibalized, and some sit waiting for their day.  She also dug through the old quarry and the piles of debris. \cf1  \cf0 They were broke, but it did not bother them; they sold what they could as scrap because they were impoverished, they reused some of the debris, whatever they could: money from scrap sales went to hay, to food, to cow manure for planting gardens  Is someone on site using it, and for what, they would ask themselves.  Broken glass became windows, vases, but that took fuel or electricity, both expensive.  Likewise melting copper, dealing with scrap machine steel and parts.  Solar furnaces were constructed. They went beyond the mindset: not a nail was to be  wasted.  Everything was regarded as a gift from God and a resource.  Old washers and refrigerators that were abandoned were brought back to life.  Some things were simply set aside. Joyce had acres of rocky ground with junk on it. She even built her own debris pile.  Some people objected to all the junk strewn over the land. The Lord led her to hangers at Whiteman Air Force Base that she was allowed to take. After they were re-built on the land in a nice row at the south edge of the Midbar, material was moved out of the weather into one of the hangers. One also was used to house the stage for worship: the crowd spilled out the doors onto the ground outside.  \par
\par
Aaron Boom built the first motor-buggy using scrap pulled out of the debris-piles, and some of what Joyce brought, including an old washing machine engine.  It was used to haul some of the heavier junk.  Originally it had a sail, but later a washing machine motor and battery were added.  The first one was low-slung, good only on level ground and slow. Later modifications included solar cells, higher speed and carriages with the larger wheels, and greater capacity and diversity in design. Later motor-buggies were used for passenger travel, general freight and to move rock in and from the quarry.\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\par

\pard\ltrpar Paul used to say, "You can foolishly hold onto pride, like an ill-gottten treasure, or you can embrace humility, forsaking holding on to earthly treasure and gaining a heavenly one." The Eppers will take anything and eventually find a use for it.  They took  stewardship very seriously and depravation is in their history. Whether people or things, they have always taken what others do not want and turned it into something of great value. They prefer to buy means of production, such as a natural gas welder, rather than an end product, and make what they want. \par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\par

\pard\ltrpar  Paul was not one of the 12 and put himself in the background. He had devoted himself mainly to reflection and prayer and was active in the prayer ministry, although not in leadership. People sought his counsel; others wondered why anyone would seek his counsell after his performance at the Nicholls church.  \par
\par
Earl Mirren struggled as a wannabe prophet, getting it right but at times swamped by the Elijah Company, Am Dabar and other, more outspoken and audacious figures. Joyce Dunbar told him to follow Christ and not to worry about titles. \par
\par
Matthew Erlanger, called Uhr as a pun because "even a stopped clock is right twice a day", interpreted everything that happened as God's judgement and condemnation. Efforts to get God's grace through to him were fruitless.  He and Am Dabar were in agreement, although Uhr never went as far as they did.  But he was more frequent.\par
\par
Others also prophesied but more seldom. \par
\par
New Hope was appalled at some of the goings-on.  Their relationship with the rest of the Ranch became tenuous.  They also absorbed enough ex-Eppers to form a new settlement adjacent, New Luebeck. Both supplied food to the main effort in exchange for some manpower when needed, and cash.  To this day both run cattle and plant soybeans; New Hope is more beef cattle and New Luebeck dairy.  They were quickly self-supporting. \par
\par
Stockwood, a tattooed, bearded, shaven-head motorcyle riding Baptist evangelist worked the crowds, seeking to save the lost and rescue people from the error of Pentecostalism.  He was actually a very gentle person, but his tracts wound up used for everything from toilet paper to fire starters.  When he learned that, he stopped passing out tracts.  But he would get into long conversations about Tozer's \i Pursuit of God\i0 , Chesterton and Francis Schaeffer.  He brought many to Christ who were there for the drugs and sex. \par
\par
\par
People also found treasure strangely attractive.  They heard the stories of the Blythewood gang, the Mueller treasure, the gold convoy.  People realized there was a danger in focusing on treasure instead of God, and with an effort people rejected the attractions of materialism, as Eppers always had, but with an emphatic NO in this particular place. The treasure was 'out there' but of no benefit, instead great danger.  It was identified with Snake Woods: lethally attractive, unknown, mysterious.  If there was treasure there it was not worth the risk. \par
   \par
"We are all forced to make choices at times; at other times we choose without realizing we have chosen. We choose toward what we really value.  Even in the face of God revealing Himself via nature, we still seek treasure elsewhere. But we are also unable to escape the choices of organizations we are a part of and their leadership. Our choices, and the choices of our leaders, build both those organizations and our leaders, and change us."\par
\par
\par
Keith Berg was perturbed at the immorality going on - a place for Christians to gather as a refuge was turning into a drug-infested orgy where anything went, and Paul was not at all concerned, if he noticed it.  "How long before it is clean again" (Jeremiah 13:27). He heard the heart of Father God longing for the holiness of His people. While pondering this, he heard of a crowd laughingly stripping off the skirt of a young woman and pointing to her genital warts. These things were not to be - Keith Berg was shocked to hear Paul says it was the clear hand of God operating in justice, but Keith Berg was interested in things being done in decency and order.  Keith Berg replied that we cannot stand by and do nothing. What can we do? Paul asked.  The situation was almost out of control and people were upset.  If they do nothing, the godly will leave and they will be left with the ungodly.  Keith Berg explained the situation to Jake, who told him to do what he had to do. Keith Berg asked for the assistance of the stone masons to back him up, and about forty people were asked to leave, some of whom threatened to stay anyway or sneak back in.  They were photographed.  From that point on there was a security presence, initially made of volunteers in shifts chosen from people that Keith Berg felt he could trust.  \par
\par
One day a group of people coalesced in one part of the camp around a statue they had made that they called Wisdom, around which they partied, dancing and drinking into an orgy.  Keith Berg came and demanded they stop. It also seemed that they were bowing down to it and directly prayers to it, which they denied and said it was just like a picture, it helped them focus on God, and others said they had, but it was in fun. They had started in fun, but some became serious about it. Keith called it blatant idolatry. They angrily challenged him, pointing out he was in no authority over them.  He appealed to Paul, who came and said he would decide and thought they should all get along, until he thought it over and made a decision.\par
\par
Keith Berg preached that Sunday on Exodus 32, drawing boos and jeers from those who had made the statue.  Others told them to be quiet and listen, but they walked out. the stone masons and others followed them and destroyed the statue, smashed the liquor bottles and scattered or burned the drugs they found, and the two groups fought each other.  The statue makers finally agreed not to make another one, and the other group agreed not to attack them.  But they called the first group to repent and stop the orgies, the drinking and the drugs.  Some demanded financial compensation for their losses. Some in the first group immediately left, others repented, others tried to steer something of a middle course, and the issue simmered. But no one ever built a statue again.  \par
\par
Keith Berg asked Paul what he thought of all this. He said he thought things had been worked out, and he did not need to say anything. \par
\par
A group of "prophets" received word that Jake was to return and rule over them as king and they were to submit to him.  He rejected this and asked Paul to deal with it.  Paul asked Keith to handle it.  How could they object to Jake's refusal, when they were wanting him to come and be king anyway?  Keith pointed out the contradiction, which somehow they did not see, but it eventually took the wind out of their sails. \par
\par
Elias Straedner, now-exiled ex-pastor of an Epper settlement, arrived.  He'd considered himself the well-beloved and respected pastor of a healthy Epper settlement, seventy years of age and thinking about stepping down, when the CDP went after him. No retirement. No pension.  Exile. He was very bitter, shockingly so.  He had been forced to come here because he had no other options, was angry at God, at the CDP, at the whole situation, at those who reported him whom he had thought were his friends but has come to see as Judases.  He would be the last person the CDP would go after, as he had been on it for 10 years himself and thought himself bulletproof. He was an old-line Epper pastor and expected to be addressed as Pastor.  He was bridled when Keith Berg told him not to do that, as that would be confusing to many.  Keith Berg was always aware he was in the assembly, as his glare and disapproving frown in a crowd of rejoicing people was evident.  \par
\par
In sermons Keith Berg addressed his concern about spiritual pride creeping in among some who seem to self-congratulate, as if they were the elite Christians and those who stayed Epper were at best half-awake or spiritually dead. He longed for them to be clean from spiritual pride and return to the ancient humility of the Eppers. Rampant pseudotheology based on popular authors engendered in him some sympathy for the Committee on Doctrinal Purity: this is what happens without checks.  He considered how to set up sufficient theological freedom so that it was not dead without allowing heresy to blossom. He spent time in prayer for structure.  In his view, Jake and Paul provided nothing that could be regarded as effective oversight.  Neither was ever a bishop: Keith Berg had been, and he was keenly aware of the need and the lack. Neither of the others was.  At the same time he had to address the antinomianism and lack of restraint present in some. It bothered him that he seemed to be coming off as the bad guy - and that Paul sometimes seemed to be allowing, or at least not ruling out, licentiousness. \par
\par
Paul thought their job was to love, and it was God's job to sanctify. Accordingly, there would always be a group of "sinners": a good thing, because they would be converted into Christlikeness.  Keith Berg agreed, but there were limits.  Was Keith Berg wise enough to set those limits? No, but they had been worked out among Eppers over centuries.  How did those work for you, Paul asked, but more gently than that. He of course had been exiled by those clinging to that working out. He had nothing more to say, and Paul said they had to revisit the whole subject, rethink it, and they did not have it clear yet. Better to err on the side of liberty than on the side of legalism, which seemed to be an Epper error. The Eppers had been happy for a long time without the CDP and they did not need to have one here. \par
\par
A  CDP-laicized Epper elder, Aaron Adams arrived, but his wife and children chose to stay with  Adams's former settlement. Keith Berg wanted pastoral help, but Paul did not want every pastor or elder who arrived to become a pastor or elder here, and Jake agreed: Jake would have to think that issue through, but he never did, and left things as they were.  Aaron Adams quietly accepted the fact that he was not to pastor and found employment in the quarry, although not in heavy lifting.  Years later Mrs. Adams and the kids came.  Aaron Adams had to forgive her and reconcile even though they had both moved in different directions. There had been reasons why she had stayed behind that were still there.  Aaron stopped his good female friendship that he suddenly found extremely inappropriate. He had to admit that he was never divorced, despite the separation, and he was about to fall into grave error when his wife arrived. \par
\par
Matthew Erlanger pointed out the confusion and lack of order as against the God Who thinks all things should be decently and in order. They were not.  He had no solutions, just criticism. He was painfully on the mark, and Paul thought it is rightfully an inspiration for prayer and seeking direction from God. It annoyed Keith Berg. \par
\par
Keith Berg had to address a man who continually prophesied gloom and doom and telling people they would die if they do not repent.  Prophecy was restricted to church services or in the presence of, for now, Paul or himself, and Keith Berg seems to be carrying the bulk of it.  No 'parking lot prophecies', please. No words one on one without someone else there for the sake of decency and order, and preferably himself. \par
\par
A loosely affiliated group of what came to be known derisively as the prosperity prophets, who never organized but just all said the same thing, declared that God would green up the land, there would be a world-wide wave of healing and supernatural works emanating from here, and Christ would return here first. This would be the new Zion, the new City of David, the new Jerusalem, and peace would go out from here like a river to all the nations.   Some of what they said seemed to have originated with the Elijah Company.  But it seemed like the idea that Jesus was to return here first rose from many different people.  Keith Berg wondered about it, and recalled that the Lord would appear everywhere at once, not in one place.  But that did not seem to slow it down. \tab  \par
\par
Due to the water shortage(s) they cut retention basins in the rock in choice places to catch rainwater. Keith Berg had to resolve the situation that the Honeybucket Brigade could not seem to learn that the basins were not where sewage was to be dumped. The rainwater needed to be purified anyway.  They dug sewage lagoons for sewage. Then was the first run-in with environmental agencies, as they got no permits initially and saw no need. Water percolating over rock worked like a trickling filter and even allowed soil to be caught in the algae.  Keith Berg got caught in the dispute between the regulatory agencies and the Honeybucket Brigade, as it was called, in charge of the sanitary sewers.  Originally they were name that because before there was any plumbing to the trailers, they would go trailer to trailer once a day and collect the waste. \par
\par
Keith Berg addressed a looming moral corruption among some who claimed to follow Christ.  Their antinomianism led to a shift where anything goes, even to the point that fleshly sins were not considered sins. Not everyone was capable of living to Epper standards, but that did not mean everything was allowable. Keith Berg had been preaching for holiness and against sin:  the group had become corrupt, maintaining an ostenatious and superficial asceticism even while, like medieval monks, going from door to door looking for money, prophesying unending wealth and peace over this New Jerusalem if people would only bless them. The pickings were few on the property, and they even tried this in Nicholls, which had little tolerance for beggars. Keith Berg consulted Paul and Jake.  Those who would not repent were exiled. \par
\par
The final straw was in the Sunday services: they sought to give prophetic words that would increase their own popularity and power.  Keith Berg told their leader Servant (they named themselves not by their given name, but by other things.  Morning Star, Endurance, Humility, Brook, Long Grass were some of the more well-known members) to stop.  They also seemed to have wanted to take control: they had a good deal of influence. Aaron Boom, among others, gave them a great deal of money.  \par
\par
One day Keith Berg realized no one has seen anyone of the Elijah Company for some time  They seem to have left and were never seen again.  Their influence remained chiefly in the People of Praise and the tradition of awaiting Christ at dawn on the hilltop across from the quarry.\par
\par
False prophetic types, led by a Karl Sallow, prophesied of the glories of the New Jerusalem and immense wealth and health that God will bring about and that the drought will end very soon.  Along came David Wellbelove-Hatman, of another caliber.  He prophesied that the current drought was of the Lord and they needed to repent.  He also denounced the false prophecies as the imaginations of men's minds.  They accused him of creating dissension.  In return he accused them of lying, self-indulgence, and speaking the Lord's Name when He had not called, appointed or sent them.  They tried  to shut him up. At first Keith Berg tried to find middle ground, but there was none.  The prophetic ping-pong went on for several weeks, after which Paul and Keith Berg said  prophecies must be cleared with Keith Berg or Paul before being spoken in service and then written and approved, then read as written: nothing spontaneous.  Paul, however, in practice allowed ping pong, saying how else are we to judge prophecy unless we hear it? This was something Keith Berg had to live with patiently.  Threats were made against DW-H but he continued, even confronting his accusers bluntly.  Unknown assailants beat him up in his tent one night.  He continued to prophesy, adding woe to those who assaulted him in a heated confrontation between himself and these false prophets, whom he accused not just of delusion but of deliberate manufacture of false words, with the aid of the occult rather than heaing the voice of the Holy Spirit. "Are our dead bodies to be found slain in the fields," they mocked DW-H, "or are we to starve to death in the cities? What fields, the bare rock here? What city? These tents? When did the voice of prophecy pass from us to you?" He retorted that they are already in a land they did not know, and neither did they understand the times. If they did, they would have recognize the voice of the Lord.\par
\par
Keith Berg heard about the final encounter second hand: "We cannot accommodate false teaching or false prophecy", DW-H said.  They are leading people astray and promulgating falsehoods.  Who has the Holy Spirit, they demand, and he retorts that it is the one who is obedient to Him and not resisting Him or lying about him.  They are prophesying a false vision, even diviniation, vanity and the deceit of their own heart - if they do not know they are lying.  They demand he take it back but he will not.  He says if the Ranch does not repent they are in for more chaos, poverty, drought, even illness: the Biblical judgement is drought, sword, famine, pestilence; the peace here is superficial, a false peace, displeasing to the Lord. Since when is it wrong to call people to repentence?  When they do not need to, is the response.  He is upsetting people, he should leave if he will not be quiet.  God has told him otherwise.  Jesus offended many and he only offends when God has told him to. It is good that they are offended: the proper response is repentence, not a hardening of the heart and anger.  They angrily ended the discussion by walking out. \par
\par
That night DW-H was beaten so badly he needed to be taken via ambulance to a hospital.  A moratorium was called on prophecy and tongues until things cooled down; angry denials that they had anything to do with it rise from those who had been prophesying health and wealth, and they had alibis.  The Sheriff investigated; it ended as a cold case because he did not find sufficient evidence and he has other, pressing investigations. He also suggested they do their own police work.  "From now on," he said,"You do your own police work.  This whole half of the county doesn't pay a cent in taxes and you are your own world anyway." \par
\par
Keith Berg visited DW-H in the hospital. He checked his understanding of the encounter with DW-H, who related that to doctors, to the sheriff, and now, for the third time, to Keith Berg, so maybe he was starting to remember it wrong, and he was tired. So instead of a line-by-line, Keith Berg stated that he had never seem him err and had heard no criticism of him that he regarded as valid, nonetheless he felt he must ask him if he had been impolitic, overly blunt, harsh.  He said what he need to say, he responded. Sometimes things need to be said a certain way to get across. For DW-H's personal safety and health Keith Berg advised him to not return to the Ranch. at a minimum at night. The beating left him with permanent injuries that would make living in the tent city very difficult. He hoped Keith Berg was not on the side of those prophesying falsely? No; this was his pastoral advice for DW-H.  DW-H conceded it would be impractical, but he was not afraid. He said he had been thinking about the verse that stated if they will not receive you in one city, go on to the next. DW-H was happy to have suffered for the Gospel. His family came and took him back home to Chicago. Keith Berg decided that information was confidential. On his return to the Ranch Keith Berg found a new sign up at the entrance: "I will give you lasting peace in this place." He identified it as from Jeremiah 14:13 and he asked Paul to take it down, which he did after some discussion. Normally it would not have been a problem, but in the present situation it was divisive, and Keith Berg knew why they had put it up. \par
\par
That finally and completely ended uncontrolled public prophecy.  Soon an Agnes Rummage came, with the same message of 'Repent', delivered to Paul and Keith Berg as prophecy was shut down. They permitted her to give it.  The health and wealth people were silent, and they slowly left. She was offered a bodyguard, but she declined. She would just as soon go see Jesus. She was here as long as He wanted her here, and nothing could stop Him, so no. She stayed one week.\par
\par
Keith attempted to dilineate between personal piety and corporate piety.  There is supposed to be a balance: we walk both individually with God and as a body of believers.  Both are necessary.  You cannot rely on the corporate life of the church to save you - personal belief is necessary, but neither can you rely on your own piety - your personal faith must be expressed in the body, if there are other Christians around. There are the first three commandments, but then the other seven. Up and out, not just one or the other.  \par
\par
\par
Simon Brot, exiled Epper, arrived.  He was guided by shterniggeit, Epper occult mysticism that had been condemned for over 350 years.  He was prohibited from spreading it on penalty of exile.  \par
--\par
\cf3 the Straedner bit is kind of fun.  Not sure it is essential, though. I think it helps us understand the Eppers, Keith, and some of the opposition faced by the principals. \cf0\par
\par
"Tell m'Lord Berg that Pastor Straedner has arrived, and desires to speak with him at his early convenience," the same said to Joseph, his man-servant and sometime amanuensis. Joseph had chosen to go into exile with his Pastor rather than enduring the suspicions that would have remained, had he stayed behind.  It had been difficult, and still was difficult. This Bishop Berg had been tried years before and exiled, and now Eppers had nowhere to go. Except here.  It was quite possible Pastor Straedner would encounter someone he had sent into exile during his time on the CDP.  It has been quite unmaginable that he himself would be tried and exiled, but now, here he was, in this Epper Gulag. That was his impression of the place.  This was where they sent criminally heretical Eppers.  It was a prison camp without guards.  How fitting that it had once been a prisoner of war camp. \par
\par
Pastor Straedner frowned at the office-trailer. It certainly did not fit the stature of a prince of a church, even in exile. It was a vacation trailer, the sort of camper you haul behind a truck.  The wheels had been replaced with concrete blocks. The trailer had a tarp stretched over it to form a canopy, under which there were two picnic tables.  But no one was in view.  He touched his waistcoat, now a plain black one, and sighed.  He had had an elaborate one, the Wonder of Berlin, with crosses in intricate patterns of silver and gold thread. But that was behind him.  He frowned at his pants-legs, still mud-free (there was remarkably little mud here, and a lot of rock passing for grass, to the shame of those dwelling here), and at his shoes, now slightly scuffed.  Joseph would have to restore the polish before he saw the Bishop. who was sure to take note. \par
\par
The Bishop had said he was available today, but that was a week ago, before the long drive, and schedules change and they had been out of contact.  Missouri. Misery. What a place.  It was hot and humid.    Here he was, standing in the sun. Unbecoming to a pastor, but what choice did he have? And what was keeping Joseph?  He considered a tart remark, then abandoned it. Patience, Elias, patience, he told himself. God had a purpose even in this. A house fly inspected him and then flew off. He wondered about the sanitaton, and sniffed.  The smell was country air, with no hint of pollution. \par
\par
Now he was sitting on a folding chair, of all things, as was Bishop Berg. They were in the one small room in the trailer. A card table had been folded and was leaning against the wall.  A small bookcase and a filing cabinet were the only other furniture. There was a broom in the corner and a large thermos that smelled of coffee on top of the bookcase, as well as a few coffee cups upside down. Pastor Straedner had been confused on entering, as there was no kneeler and the Bishop was wearing a t-shirt that said "Love God and Do What You Please", of all things. The walls bore marks of the removal of counters and the former camper equipment, although it had been repainted.  \lang9 A poster proclaimed "Poshlost Free Zone" on the wall.  It was unfortunate if there were Russian Eppers here.  He viewed them as semi-barbaric, strange, uncivilized. 'Poshlost' was Russian but he could not remember the meaning.  Probably crude, if it was the Russians.  But then this was a Bishop, and his name was Berg. There was a plain brass cross opposite the door. \lang1033\par
\par
"I am Keith Berg," said the Bishop.\par
\par
"I am Pastor Elias Straedner," said he, putting a gentle and respectful emphasis on "Pastor', lest he be thought he was rebuking a bishop and to demonstrate his deference. He was used to kneeling before his bishop and found this folding chair arrangement quite odd, disconcerting, disorienting.\par
\par
"We are not long on titles around here.  I do not use the title of Bishop. It is no longer appropriate. I was laicized, as you may know , and we reserve 'Pastor' for those fully recognized as such here.  Currently that would be only Paul de le Grande, but he does not like it. In your correspondence you filled me in on everything that has happened to you, which is all too common these days. I am afraid you are not recognized as a pastor here, and it may be very difficult, because you have been called that for forty years."\par
\par
"Fifty," said the ex-pastor, feeling it. It was like exsanguination. Like the discovery that there were charges against him.  Like the end of his trial. Like leaving his settlement, knowing it was no longer his and he would never return. Loss on loss, pain on pain, blow on blow.  Each bearable, but the sum - sometimes it seemed like a mountainous weight, more than he could bear. \par
\par
"If I may say so, you will have to work on your identity in Christ instead of in your ministry. You may find it very refreshing. Invigorating and encouraging.  Maybe not at first.  It took me a while to get over no longer being a Bishop, let alone a pastor. Enjoy being free of the burdens of being a pastor. Smell the flowers. Enjoy life.  Be grateful for what you have."\par
\par
They looked at each other for a moment.\par
\par
"It may take some time of mourning and grief for what you have lost - and I share your pain - but for the good and health of your soul, you must move on. Do you agree?"\par
\par
Of course he agreed.  He almost said, "As the Bishop wishes," but he held his tongue, and merely nodded.  Words were failing him.\par
\par
"Where shall we live? How shall my man servant find us living quarters?"\par
\par
"As for that, I have spoken to Joseph.  He is no longer your 'man-servant' and wishes to start his life anew. Apart from you, I am afraid."\par
\par
"He was under vow."\par
\par
"An unjust vow. I released him from it."\par
\par
The Pastor did not know what to say.  He flushed, remembering that it had been forced on him almost against his will.  But isn't that what servants are for, to do what you want even against their own will?  But there was justice here that cut across the past. He would have to admit that the Bishop had done right.  A servant could approach a bishop and be released from a vow.  And the pastor could not utter a word in protest. That was the system he was familiar with.   \par
\par
He did not recall the Bishop's parting words as he made his way, as directed, to the Medical Center for a thorough examination.  This was a blow, perhaps the final blow, the final separation: Joesph had been his faithful man-servant for many, many years. He'd been in every meeting, taken every note, acted as personal secretary, chaffeur, screen, polished his shoes, done laundry, even made his bed and arranged for cooks, all household staff, everything, so the Pastor was free to pastor. And now he was gone, and so was Mrs. Straedner, who, painfully, had chosen to stay with the settlement while her husband was exiled.  That had been betrayal, almost unforgivable. He could not have believed it of her.  And the children as well. He had always put the ministry first, as he had told her while they were courting, and she had always accepted it.  But he had thought Joseph loyal.  \par
\par
It was not a proper medical center.  Only a house, if obviously Epper-built.  The doctor made him sit in the waiting room for twenty minutes to see if his heart rate would be reduced.  He was under stress. He found himself pouring out his heart to the doctor, who listened quietly. "Not the first time I have heard such a story. I am sorry; I am sure Keith Berg gave you good advice."\par
\par
"The bishop?"\par
\par
"Well, we do not call him that."\par
\par
He looked at the tent with distaste: a bright and cheerful holiday tent, with bright yellow and green stripes.  He went inside and found four cots, the empty one was obviously his. On it he deposited what he had been carrying: a change of clothes, linens,pillow. On the little table at the head he put the small clear bag containing a bar of soap and a few other hygiene items and the flashlight.  He turned it on and off again and made sure it was still working. He had his own familiar, personal Epper Bible with the English and the Hebrew and the Greek, underlined and marked up over the years. That was it.  That was all he had, except for his polished leather shoes which went under the cot. Pastor Straedner looked around his new quarters with distaste.  He had been told Joseph was in another part of the camp and in all likelihood they would not be seeing much of each other.  His cot was just like the other three. He looked at his new workboots, well-crafted of leather, with distaste.  They were already on his feet, of course, which had happened back at the Hanger.  The other three beds were neatly made and there was a plastic tub with a closed lid under each, and a few hangers on twine line near each that served as a closet. He arranged his Bible on the little folding table at the head of his cot and the towels on his hangers, the linens and pillow on the cot, but he did not make it up like a bed.  He could not bring himself to do that menial work. Instead he carefully sat on the cot and leaned over, hands clasped, and attempted prayer. \par
\par
Nothing came.  There was the sound of the camp: children laughing, guitars and singing in various directions, the clanging of a kitchen as lunch preparations were underway, and talking, talking, talking. English. Dutch. Russian. Japanese. Other languages he did not recognize. People smells, and behind it the smell of prairie grass, his own sweat smell. What had they said about showers?  He sat there in darkness, at the end of everything, nowhere to go, nothing to do, known by no one, knowing no one. \par
\par
How long, he did not know.  There was a cough. "If I may interrrupt your prayer," said the young woman,"We have found a work assignment.  You will be in the Hanger itself, helping new people come in. We understand you are fluent in Koine and German, and can sustain a conversation in Russian?"\par
\par
"Well, I have some Arabic, Hebrew and Aramaic as well," Pastor Straedner declared, letting her know in no uncertain terms what her place was. "But yes. That is what I said. I assume I will be giving them counsel and direction?"\par
\par
She laiughed. "If you can call it that.  You will be taking them to go see the doctor, and if they have language troubles, you will take them there and interpret. And explain about the boots and the snakes, among other things, like what dining hall they are assigned to, what tent, what showers and latrines: basically taking them through orientation, if you want to call it that, just like what you did before you came here. Tell them to get their stuff and find their tent. Now, can you find the Hanger from here?"\par
\par
"Certainly. It is very obvious."  Well, it was sort of pastoral work. In a way.  He would be of some limited use, which was more than he might expect. At seventy-four, used to a sedentary life and set in his ways, he certainly could not work in the quarry.\par
\par
"Well, good. Some people have trouble. I see you have not made your cot up."\par
\par
"Well, no."\par
\par
"Do you know how?"\par
\par
Perhaps she would do it for him? There was a moment of eye contact. They she said, "You can watch your tent mates. They can show you.  I'm not making your cot up for you.  That is your job.  A cot needs to be made up,  for neatness, and it keeps the bugs out -  and other creatures.  And we have standards. "\par
\par
\par
"People have been complaining.  You need to look friendly."\par
\par
"Friendly. Well."  The people who had been arriving were, shall he say, not the sort he would want in a settlement, and he thought they should take the hint and leave.\par
\par
She looked at him for a moment. "I am sure there is something else you can do here.  How about if you go back to your tent until we find it?"\par
\par
How utterly humiliating. \par
\par
 When he got back to his tent he found his shoes, his good pastoral shoes, his expensive shiny black shoes, his familiar shoes that had seen years of good comfortable use at weddings, funerals, baptisms, sermons, services, counseling, meetings, etc., were missing. It was like they were a part of him, another part, now missing.  What was left of him? What more could be taken?  It was clear this was a den of thieves.   It was clear to him that he had gotten so comfortable as a pastor that he had gotten to relaxing his spiritual disciplines, like trust.  He needed to work on that. And joy. Hope. Faith. Love.  Everything, in fact.  His soul was a shriveled up ball of frustration.  Well, he would meet the challenges.  1 Peter 1 and all that.  \par
\par
He frowned suspiciously at the two workers outside the tent.  They were cutting a shallow groove into the rock, presumably to drain water.  There was a whole system of these little grooves being cut that led down somewhere, where they caught all the rain water. They did not have the shoes.\par
\par
"Ah- Mr. Berg."  The good bishop - how could a pastor not call him that: he would have to train his mind -  had changed into a suit and was sitting under the canopy, his stole in front of him. Beside it the Order Of Services was open and his finger was tracing out the text.\par
\par
"Keith." Keith looked up questioningly. "What is wrong?"\par
\par
"A great number of things."\par
\par
"I am sorry to hear that.  I am on my way to a funeral in Nicholls.  The funeral of a small child, in fact, one who died here a few days ago. Elizabeth Mirren, three years old and very sweet.  She will be missed. You are, I see,  dressed for a funeral." He looked at the pastor for a moment. "I think you should come with me.  Yes, I think so."  Despite the boots, soon polished to perfection, he found himself assisting at funerals. It reminded him of days long ago, in his pastoral internship, and was pastoral work.  He also realized that there were others worse off that he was, many far worse.  His grim face and sober manner was reassuring to many Eppers in times of grief and a comfort, and he found he could comfort people simply by silence and presence.   Keith did not allow him to lead through the order of service, even though he knew it by heart. He was not allowed to speak unless spoken to.  It was sort of the role of an amanuensis, which was familiar and thus a comfort, and he implicitly understood that he was not to proffer his opnion, and then as little as possible.  Some of what happened was not what he would do, much was unheard of, and it was an education.  But he was silent on those things.  \par
\par
"What do you do between funerals?" Keith asked him one day.\par
"I go to my tent and wait until summoned."\par
"I think it would help us all if you got to know some of the people.  If you don't mind me saying so, You come off as aloof.  I know they are not Eppers. But you have to love people where they are at. Jesus does."\par
\par
"Well, yes."\par
\par
"We have many good people here it would benefit you to know. And I think it benefits them to know you." \par
\par
----\par
How did what must have been more leadership struggles than portrayed so far not happen, with this weak level of leadership?  Very passive and absent.  How did that work? How was Paul not faced with potential supplanters and people demanding more vision and action from him? He would tell them to go and do whatever - some things worked, some things crashed and left a mess.  \par
\par
A teenage girl named Renee is raped and chooses to bear the baby to term.  Keith promises her the full support of everyone, especially of himself and his wife. New Haven takes her in.\par
\par
The area where trash was burned and waste dumped acquired the name Tophet.  It was a mile southeast of the camp. \par
\par
\ul\b  C. J. Owen\ulnone\b0    July 1975\ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 viewpoint of C. J. Owen\par
 \par
It was still "Woodstock West": in chaos aside from self-organizing efforts as needed and necessities. But no overall coordination or structure existed.  Paul was still happy with things as they are.  Keith Berg was doing what he could. There were 6,000 people here: he hoped they would not stay. They were mostly in tents. People provided their own shelters, generally commercially made family tents or even two-man tents, down to dining flies, tarps, sheets of plastic. And others were in campers.\par
\par
CJ drifted in with a boyfriend for the drugs and Woodstock West, not knowing anything about the place.  The boyfriend abandoned her but he was easily replaced.  Jeannie de le Grande befriended her. Alarmed, she took off for San Diego but soon returned.  She gave her life to Christ and became Jeannie's Girl Friday, helping out here, there and everywhere, the motherless daughter of a daughterless mother. \par
\par
Joyce Dunbar fouind an amazing number of army surplus tents - this was at the same time that Paul was urging people to leave for the winter.  People took that as a sign of permanence, and the realization came to A Keith Berg that people  were here to stay, to build the Refuge City. Instead of POWs they were people of peace.  That caught on among some, having risen in the Elijah Company and now more widely.  \par
\par
C.J.'s friend Shelly discovered the biting ants had moved into the refuse piles and spent several days in the med center as a result, also getting cut on the broken glass, wires, and pieces of metal sticking out.  The piles were staked off with twine marking the do not cross, but a few teenagers crossed to their harmt. They were then all fenced off.  Miles Mirren, former professor of Greek at Reformation College, took charge of this.  No snakes were seen in them.  He had a fascination with herpetology and cataloged the snakes to be found in the area, including those down at Snake Woods.   He was the first to capture one and study it. Miles Mirren also fenced off the farmhouse, barn, chicken coops and outbuilldings.  They were reluctant to tear them down due to possible historical value although they were long past repair. Some of Miles' fencing had to be redone.  He published several articles on the snakes of Nicholls County.  \par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\par

\pard\ltrpar The Mueller family, after having considered offers from Johnson (Johnson claimed the Phelps Diamond as his, if it was ever found - he claimed his ancestor had bought it from Phelps and it was stolen from his ancestor, that he had promised his father and grandfather, who had searched for it, that he would search as well), whom they found repugnant, donated the entire Ranch to Jake Profim.  From that time it was referred to as the Profim Ranch, and then just the Ranch by those who lived there.  Those in the town of Nicholls often called it the Mueller property, or the Mueller Ranch. \par
\par
Missouri DNR took an interest in Snake Woods and put up warning signs. There were legal complications because they wanted to turn it into an endangered species reserve, but that seemed like uncompensated siezure of private property and they hesitated. The compromise position was the signs, which they were allowed to maintain.\par
\par
\par
Bad things seem to happen to Shelly on a consistent basis.  CJ was rather phlegmatic, but Shelly was a true-blue, blue melancholic. Woe is me, why do these things keep happening to me?    Shelly provided contrast and gave insight into how CJ approaches life.  CJ just shrugged, had no answers, asked if Shelly deserved this or worse, had to take it up with God, etc. At the same time Shelly was the one who got the donation package from the Muellers' attorneys.  So she learned to appreciate all that God sends her way, only the learning is difficult.  Blessing came to the Ranch through Shelly but it was not always in a conscious or even active way.  Shelly realiized she has mood swings and it is something she has to deal with. Struggled with near bipolar disorder. God is the intimate stranger.\par
\par
During this stage of Ranch life there was some one on one accountability but no real overall discipline.\par
\par
CJ met God: He had not abandoned her. She had been seeking to be significant, to be someone, to do something great.  She comes around to the idea that she is significant because God made her, but that is a cold, distant, intellectual significance.  Cannot she feel it in her heart and not just 'assent to an intellectual truth'?  Jeannie listens. "I will pray for you."  How can she accept the fact that God accepts her, contrary to what CJ sees and knows in herself?  She will have to assent to that and eventually her emotions will come around. \par
\par
Elias Straedner confronted Jeannie on what kind of a sinner CJ was: Jeannie should not be befriending her, based on what she had done.  Jeannie told him the day of the Pharisees is over and CJ is now leading a holy life. Is he so without sin that he can say anything? He says he is.  Jeannie does not think so.  He concedes the point that he has been very judgemental and apologizes. Appalled at some of the things he sees that are not dealt with, he moves to New Hope. \par
\par
Matthew Erlanger paid more attention to CJ than she is comfortable with, but it is not enough to say anything.  She saw him at first as a grandpa, in touch with God, then as a creep with a warped view of the world. \par
\par
There was tension in the church between Eppers who wanted traditional service and charismatics who regarded such as dead.  This was resolved in the establishment of settlements, and those desiring traditional service could church there. \par
\par
CJ found herself discipling Sarah, a woman who in her thirties.  She had been a pleasure worker for a major hotel chain, but they had fired here when she was no longer up to their beauty standards.  Somehow she found her way here, bereft of meaning.  Her major problem was living below the line of despair and discovering there is real value and worth in God's creation.  Although she had chosen to serve the gods of this world, men with power and wealth who used her, God had mercy on her. She now cast  off relativism and accepted  the love of God, far superior to the contingent love she had made money off of. Somehow, in the midst of this discussion, an emotional awareness came sneaking in and CJ felt the love of God.  Previously she had looked around at others caught up in worship, not feeling that love, but now she did and could worship God with all her heart. \par
\par
CJ was responsible for picking up and sending mail.  Not long after that she found herself driving to Archie daily, as the Nicholls post office was difficult to work with. \par
\par
The Nicholls county and state political parties took an interest in the Ranch as apparently people were there to stay, but Eppers are non-political to an incredible degree and they could get no traction. Olivia Kushtov, a Russian Epper, got interested but found she was the only one. She eventually moved to Nicholls and became involved in Nicholls city-county politics. Johnson co-opted her, bankrolling her campaign for mayor, but she lost because Nicholls did not want anyone as mayor with a Ranch background. \par
\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 4 Order From Chaos\par
\par
\ulnone\b0\tab Mark "the Potter"  Oct 1975\par
\par
His brother exiled, Mark Kikker left with him for Profim Properties.  Mark is taken care of by his brother and he decided to go with him.  Mark was an idiot savant.  Keith Berg prayed for him perfunctorily, and there was a slow but major improvement.  Mark started his pottery business, which flourished, and they got into the highly lucrative field of medical ceramics, his brother's background as a pharmacist being useful.  Nicholls Bank put pressure on them to borrow money, starting at very favorable rates and terms.  Mark did not believe in borrowing money.  In his opnion, businesses did much better if they did not concern themselves with money.  This viewpoint stunned the bank employee he shared it with.\par
\par
 Mark found he could no longer sell much in town, and building inspectors regularly cited him for problems with the building. Finally they moved out to the Ranch from Nicholls and sell the building to Nicholls Bank for $1.00. A Mr. Johnson of Harrisonville has been involved, the up-and-coming grandson of the founder of Johnson Bank of Harrisonville. Johnson tells him the story of the Phelps Diamond and how it was stolen from his great grandfather. Had he heard any talk about it out on the property/ If he did Johnson would show great appreciation monetarily.  Mark had not heard anything.  He also was not interested in telling Johnson anything. He thought Johnson was behind the claims that he had not paid taxes and that he had assaulted a woman, both untrue. \par
\par
Later Kikker Industries became a major economic engine for not only the Ranch but Nicholls.  It continues to be wholly owned by the Ranch.  \par

\pard\ltrpar\li720  \i\par
\i0  John Cassell\i : \cf1 ordering chaos\cf0\i0  \cf3 (Simon Brot finds and takes diamond to Snake Woods, John arrives, there is the storm that soliidifies John's leadership  \cf2  \cf0\i\par
\cf3\i0\par
\cf0  Luke Kikker: \cf1\i coming home\cf0\i0   \cf2 questionable as a major character. He should be wrapped in with others.   \cf0\i\par

\pard\ltrpar\ul\b\i0  \ulnone\b0\par
\par
\par
 \tab John Cassell   July 1978\ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 John Cassell was high-energy, even running three miles a day in rural Alaska - at the Ranch he soon increased it to five miles, every day.  He was a natural leader, highly intelligent, fluent in English, French, and of course Koine.  He also spoke Epper-Dutch, which resembled eighteenth century Dutch more than modern Dutch and had a vocabulary difference with standard Dutch.  He could be quite caustic and was impatient with people he thought inefficient, slow, stupid or otherwise not with the program.  Generally he controlled his temper, though, and was, as someone said, "good acid".  He spent much time writing development plans on different aspects of the Ranch, only to find some change or fact that would prevent its implementation.  Paul was uninterested in his reports, and when he sent several to Jake, all he got back was "very nice".  \par
\par
\par
\par
On John's arrival from Alaska, John was horrified by Paul's passivity, but he realized it was backed by prayer, faith and results.  His sentiments lined up more with Keith Berg's as to the imposition of order and structure. Jake and John had met years earlier and a mutual esteem and friendship arose.  Jake told Paul that John was the administrator they had been looking for - "God may supply manna in the wilderness, but there is a time to settle in Canaan and plant crops". But Jake did nothing to implement John as the administrator.   Keith Berg welcomed John and encouraged him to stay and get involved. He began with little things, leading via example and persuasion.  Some obstinate people opposed him as a new comer.  \par
\par
His wife Katy was openly contemptuous of the charismatic movement and the gullibility (in her opinion) of some of the people.   She finally realized these people were not just plastic comic Christians but real people who were struggling with the same God she was, and her attitude changed.  But Katy never really accepted the gifts of the Spirit as active today, and dismissed talk of demonic activity as the product of overactive imaginations and superstition. She admitted that perhaps there had been miraculous activity back in the 'Golden Age' here, she would not rule it out, but she would be very skeptical of any claims of any alleged miracles today.  Hadn't miracles ceased with the apostles? Do we really need to become supersitious and go around praying for healing and casting out demons?  She thought they should soberly pursue the gifts of the Spirit and not focus on such things. People learned quickly not to discuss the miraculous around her.    \par
\par
John encountered opposition from Wilson, an American charismatic layman, obsessively neat regarding his own appearance and critical of everyone else. Wilson considered himself one of the founders of the place and entitled to respect as a pillar of the community, in contrast to new people like John Cassell who needed to be taken down a notch. Wilson was immediately jealous of John: bitter, petty, almost but not quite malicious, always in a way that was one step short of needing a rebuke. Wilson became a bitter foe who would not lead, would not follow, would not get out of the way, and would not leave.   Wilson was  under the impression this was the promised land where he need not work; he'd been here for years and "knew how things worked." He considered his main role to be guildance, although his advice rarely turned out well, but some were convinced by his smooth delivery, his charm and his thorough criticism of everything wrong with the place, most of which were things he took out of proportion, although based somewhat in truth, but he used them to build a group around himself as the one who really understood the place. Wilson had ambitions to be the administrator but neither Paul nor Keith Berg supported that. John wondered why anyone would listen to Wilson, who would speak authoritatively if wrongly on any subject that came up.  \par
\par
Keith Berg knew there were rumblings of discontent, but Wilson hid himself well enough that Keith could not find the source of the problem, if there was a single source.\par
\par
Despite living in New Hope, where he sought to be pastor to no avail, Elias Straedner bitterly opposed John, as he had been on the CDP during the start of John's trial, was among those who voted to oust him, and was now of the opinion he should not be in leadership. John struggled to forgive him and let the past be the past. Did Elias Straedner intend to have a Committee on Doctrinal Purity here and put everyone on trial who had been exiled?  He confessed he was tempted, but he saw that as wrong.  But what were the limits of theology that were tolerated in order to enforce unity?  Unity was not approached that way - it had not worked for the Eppers and they were determined not to go down that road.  Chastened, Elias returned to New Hope. \par
\par
They'd seen no miracles in some time.  Had God forgotten them? Was there sin in the camp? Yes, and they were addressing it continually, as it was like a weedy garden. Was the decision to disperse for winter wrong? Were they "administering" and "managing" in the flesh instead of "ministering in the power of the Holy Spirit"? Key here is "seen": God had been quietly working, but one had to look deep for it. Story of the chicken: one piece of chicken fed everyone. Foundational moment in the history of the Ranch. God was with them in quiet ways even more than in spectacular ones. John is skeptical about reports he's heard of some creepy supernatural somethiing under Snake Woods, which he regards as superstitious hogwash.  \par
\par
John Cassell led them in the emergency of the storm.  After this he was no longer challenged seriously as the administrator.  Jake thought they all perished and regretted  his inattention, especially in not delegating overall responsibility. After the storm Wilson left, as well as several other families.  Jake stayed for a week and listened. He would not live forever and he could not support them forever; if they were going to stay, they needed to become a self-supporting community.  He could not and would not be involved in the day to day of this, and frankly he didn't know how much longer he would be able to support them: he sensed he had peaked, as now places that formerly begged him to come were not even returning phone calls. His would be a long, slow taper as his hour was passing in the US.  Time to pick up on long-standing invitations, still valid, to visit South Africa, Rhodesia and Nigeria. He would order trailers, but they would have to do the rest. Trailers? John wondered.  They would have been better off with deliveries of raw material, such as lumber, and building things themselves.  Eppers typically do not buy finished goods.  Where had Jake come up with this idea? Then he heard nothing about it and figured Jake had dropped the idea, which relieved him of some anxiety.  He began drawing up a list of material that he thought would be good to get instead of the trailers, if Jake was going to do anything.  Funds and gifts had been sporadic, so he tended to dismiss this and it was low priority. \par
\par
With the storm gone, a number of families moved back into tents not far from the stable, but things had changed. Wilson and some of his followers left, the others fit into the new way of doing things.  The Council of Twelve, as they came to be known, had unquestioned authority to make long-term, strategic decisons, which they were intent on using as little as possible. People knew they looked out for each other.  Hard work was expected.  The contract system was established, run by  Administrator John Cassell.  What someone worked established how they could receive housing and food, and people were expected to work as hard as they were able. John hoped to have either a staff of administrators or an administrator in each settlement, but the Council of Twelve stated that would be their decision, which had not been made yet.  The place took on the characteristics of an Epper settlement, if grossly oversized.  Jake turned the property over to the Council of Twelve  in the form of Jacob Profim Properties, LLC. \par
\par
The Ranch began an annual day of thanksgiving centered on a common meal including chicken and potato soup to remember that day.  Many stayed who were on the point of leaving. Many people huddled together for warmth with straw in the stable. Rescue attempt by Nicholls Epper church - Kitten involved and his sons, and Pastor Schmidt, others.   Some people left as soon as the blizzard was over and the roads were clear enough.    \par
\par
Keith Berg was offered the position of Pastor.  He took some prayerful time but due to family concerns he declined.  He also declined a position on the Council of Twelve, as he felt he would be overly influential and that might be a back way to him being the de facto pastor. The Council looked to him for advice and leadership. He was the de facto pastor.  He preached, counseled and taught on a part-time basis.  Elias Straedner made it known that he should be on the Council, or the pastor, or the administrator, because John was a heretic.  "We all are heretics," they replied,"and you are one of those who made us such."  Elias Straedner did not take this well. Incredibly, this state of affairs of Keith Berg seeking God's will took until 1990, when he finally declined and they said that was indeed final. Sandy Sands and Joseph Bauer, former assistant to Elias Straedner, were among those chosen.\par
\par
The Council accepted John as Administrator in accordance with 1 Corinthians 12:28. The administrator is not on the Council, being a "thumb to the fingers of the elders" as they put it.  The Council decided to cap the size of a settlement at two hundred families in accordance with Epper practice, effectively breaking the camp into two zones until permanent buildings were built by and for each settlement. There was a lot of debate as to what two settlements there should be to start with.  They finally agree on Hair Bair as the administrative center or capital, with the high school, the Council of Twelve, and major facilities to serve all other settlements.  The second settlement would be concerned with water, always a sore point, centered around where the POW well had been located.  Both settlements were to be self-sufficent but trade with each other and the outside.  \par
\par
Eventually the Council decided that all administrative decisions would be made by them, and no administrators would be permitted in individual settlements.  New Haven balked at this, partly thanks to Elias Straedner, but also because they already had an administrator, Yackob Brodt by name, in place. New Haven agreed to coordinate with the rest of the Ranch but insisted on sovereignty within the limits of its own settlement boundaries.  They stated they would go along with the Council of Twelve where they could but did not consider the Council's decisions binding. The Council found the other settlements mostly taking the same position, even the later ones.  The only one that was fully under the Council was Hair Bair, where the administrator for the Ranch also was the administrator for the settlement.  So they slowly backed off on this.\par
\par
John worked on organizing the settlements properly, with a pastor and administrator and a local session in each, with the Council and the Pastor and Administrator for the Ranch taking coordinating functions, despite unwanted interference from the Council of Twelve. The Council, the pastor and the administrator were not to involve themselves in the independence of any particular settlement, per the historical Epper structure. It took the Council a long time to see this.   They tended to see the Ranch as one settlement with many sub-settlements.  The settlements saw themselves as self-functioning and independent, if on Ranch property.  The Council of Twelve would not sell them the land, but then the Council did not charge rent.  Agreements were written to the effect that if the Ranch was ever sold or changed hands, the settlements would acquire their own land without cost.  At the time, Hair Bair was mainly tents, with a few houses, dining halls, latrines and the Hanger. \par
\par
However, the Council overlooked their inability to bring in any money from outside - typically settlements generate revenue, but Hair Bair did not initially. They were being supported also by the Epper settlements that had established themselves, who also expressed concern for them long-term. For a long time Hair Bair was mostly a  receiving, organizing and sending depot for settlements and had no built-in industry, which was a source of criticism by the other settlements.  John realized it would mean years of poverty but it was the best solution available.  Keith Berg urged them to work on self-sufficiency, but this was disregarded in favor of outside employment: many at Hair Bair then worked outside. New Haven saw no reason for a governmental center at Hair Bair.  At the same time they accepted the idea of some centralized functions, such as a high school there.  Specialization could be done by settlements in the age-old manner, and they thought the Council mistaken in their direction. \par
\par
\cf3 They hired White, Black & Jones, a professional consulting engineering firm as public works director. They hired Serenity4U, full-time, professional, trained Security people who patrol the entirety of the property. This was after multiple marijuana fields, some booby-trapped, were found in various places around the property. Shelly found the first while horseback riding, and then they discovered more.  They burned them all.  They hired a law firm to defend the Ranch against an increasing number of difficulties with state and federal agencies.  All this costs money, in short supply.   \ul\i Is all this really needed?\cf0\par
\ulnone\i0\par
John advocated for holistic management of the desertified areas, starting in the  north, with cattle and a few buffalo to be maintained in common. The Council of 12 were unwilling to obtain more than twenty head of cattle and ten head of buffalo, not nearly enough, and add ten head of cattle a year: anything beyond that should be on the settlements and internal to them. The Council of 12 was unwilling to hire anyone with expertise in holistic land management, and results were mixed. \lang9  They were delighted when members of a settlement in New York state, seeking more land for their aurochsen, and under heresy trial, found an opportunity here.   The individual settlements were doing better, however. \lang1033\par
\par
That spring a deadly flu spread through the property.  It took the elderly and small children. There was grief and murmuring: where was God, who had led them to die in the wilderness?  Karl Sallow, leader of the health and wealth prophets, was among the first to die. Elias Straedner died with only Keith Berg at his bedside.  He thanked Keith Berg for leading him out of bitterness back to Christ, and was ready to meet Him in person. Keith Berg told him that he might have many more years on earth, but Straedner was silent, as he had died.  Matthew Erlanger fell ill, wrote a long angry letter blaming John Cassell, and then died. The letter got out and was dealt with. Others also blamed John Cassell.  He said there were too many people too close together who had come from many different parts of the world - on thinking about it he was surprised there had not been more illness. They set apart land for a cemetary west of the old quarry.   Six head of cattle died of fever.  The other cattle were separated from each other and survived. This again cost money. The leaders called for a time of prayer, fasting and repentence.  Many confessed their sins and those of their fathers publicly in a three-day long meeting. \par
\par
The Johnson Bank launched a lawsuit against Profim Properties, claiming that the Muellers had promised them the land and they found a Mueller to back it up. It was spurious and the Mueller they found could not speak for the family, but that took a lot of time, money and headache.  Johnson Bank filed it in Minnesota and the judge there granted a change of venue.  They attacked the LLC and attempted to demonstrate that the owners were not meeting the fiduciary responsibliities of those living on the land, in fact, that they were forcing them into slavery.  Taxes were also due on their labor and the goods furnished to them.  In Nicholls County court Profim Property attorneys argued it as a religious freedom case and the judge dismissed the suit for lack of evidence. \par
\par
\par
\par
\ul\b  Luke Kikker\ulnone\b0  May 1979\ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 viewpoint of Luke Kikker\par
\par
\cf3 The area where human waste is dumped and is turning into a lagoon is called Tophet. Items that cannot be recycled (very few) wind up here and trash (little) is burned here. It is located about a mile southeast of Hair Bair and the same northeast of Snake Woods.\cf0\par
\par
The old quarry was cleaned out and quarrying resumed. Serenity4U had been replaced by Ranch personnel. White, Black and Jones was only on retainer.\par
\par
A group of people showed up claiming to be refugees: one man, twelve women, and a boy.  They asked for asylum and room to live.  Were they Christian? No, they laughed, we are not.  What are you? We follow an ancient and honorable and peaceable religion, one we do not name out of respect for it.  Something made CJ uneasy, but there is the ancient Epper tradition of hospitality, so she said they could stay overnight.  They had everything they needed and would like to set up separately, as they had sheep and goats with them. Perhaps to the south?  She said it was fine for the night but she expected there would be questions before they were granted any sort of permanent status. \par
\par
The next day John Cassell and CJ went down to talk to them: John had many questions and was uneasy about this.  One of the group broke off from the others and approached them.  She said John and the other Christian could not near the group as they were performing a secret ritual.  He could see the smoke from a fire going up from behind the others, who were chanting.  Everything seemed off, somehow.  There was something evil about the whole thing.  \par
\par
"We are staying," their leader told them after crossing the distance. His hands and cheeks and chin had fresh blood on them.  There was a fierce and wild look in his eye. CJ thought him capable of anything. Anything. \par
\par
"That's blood," John said.\par
\par
"Yes, we have sacrificed.  Our god has accepted our offering and said this is where we are to be. As I said, we are staying."\par
\par
"I cannot permit that," John said.\par
\par
"You have no choice." The leader looked smug.  John decided to returrn the next day in force.  He asked for prayer that night from all the prayer teams. Many of those praying said they sensed resistence to their prayers.  Around the south end of the camp, particularly among those not following Christ, there were strange moans and apparitions in the night.  There was insistent knocking on doors and windows, but no one would be there.  People had nightmares.  One entire family got up and left in the middle of the night and never returned.  Few slept well anywhere - some were called, they said, to pray all night, and others only got restless sleep, with vivid and disturbing dreams. \par
\par
The next morning John and twenty men, armed, went down to pay the newcomers a visit. Their camp was deserted.  They had left in a hurry, on foot, leaving everything behind.  Sleeping bags were in their tents as if they had woken in haste and fled.  There were boots and clothes scattered as if they had run south, directly towards Snake Woods.  Possessions had been dropped and they had fled.  They also found an altar made of uncut stones, and on it was the burned and blackened skelaton of a goat.  There was no sign of their other animals.  \par
  \par
On the rock around the altar someone had incised a pentagram, and there were the pools of black wax from black candles that had been burned all the way down.  \par
\par
There was no sign of them aside from this.  The area was searched.  Snake Woods, of course, was not, and the vegetation there was so thick you could not see into it.\par
\par
They piled everything the people had left into a large pile. They found spell books and literature containing things they never described.  It all went into the pile.  They knocked over the altar and scattered the stones and the goat bones.  Two days later they returned and burned the pile. It gave off a foul odor and burned for days, so watchmen were required.  They obliterated the incised pentagram as best they could.    From that day forward that area had a strange feeling about it - no one went there willingly and nothing was ever built there.  It was called Gehenna and avoided. Nothing was ever seen of those people ever again.\par
 \par
At this time most of the ex-Eppers had formed settlements on the property or had left, and most of the people in the common area, now Hair Bair, were non-Epper, many of whom were passed over by the ex-Eppers in forming their settlements due to lack of skills, personality problems or cultural differences.  The ex-Eppers were typically suspect of American charismatics, finding thime overly emotional, shallow and lazy. The Eppers who remained in the common area felt called to talk care of their Christian brethren. Those who could work worked, mainly outside the Ranch.  Some could not work, and they were cared for.  Those who would not work were asked to leave.\par
\par
Johnson Bank filed another lawsuit, this time in Nicholls.  John Cassell was in court when the trailers suddenly arrived, and were haphazardly left together in the flat area of the old POW camp not far from the gate. People immediately moved out of the tents and into them and refused to move out.  When John returned later that day, he was quietly but absolutely furious - Jake had bought them without telling him, or anyone else, and there were various appurtenances, such as trailer skirts, utility hookups, steps, leveling pads, etc., that Jake knew nothing about and had not provided for - John also knew nothing about them.  Nor did anyone else. Jake had just bought "trailers" and they were delivered, suddenly, all in one day, by train into Nicholls and then hooked up to trailer cabs and dropped off as quickly as possible. The cabs kept returning to Nicholls to get the trailers, which had arrived by train, and after dropping off all the trailers, the cabs left  As they had separated the tents into two future settlements, and now they were mingled, this destroyed the separation.  Moving trailers would require getting a suitable cab and expertise, as well as removing families determined that their tent days were over, and money, etc., so the trailers stayed put.   \par
\par
Luke found a burned-out wagon train: bleached wood of the train south of Snake Woods.  Iron parts and some wood could still be seen. He heard the theory that it had been hauling gold from New Mexico, or maybe it was as in the Mueller myth.  The later settlement of Wagon Wheel was named after this, and the settlement kept it in a park as a display. \par
\par
A marijuana field someone planted in the out-regions had been burned last year, and the year before.  This year they found it booby-trapped.  They disabled the booby-traps and burned the field again.  If that land could be used for pot, it could be used for a settlement.  They urged a settlement be built near it, to farm it and prevent its reuse as a pot field. \par
\par
People also were camping and leaving burn circles and trash behind, which animals would go through and tear up.  Luke had to clean some of this up, including used needles, beer cans, paper plates, styrofoam, human waste, soiled disposable diapers. They were also digging holes. Luke wondered who they were, and if they were hunting for treasure.\par
\par
Mike Profim, Jake Profim's son, was called as pastor in 1992 over newly arrived, nationally known charismatic ex-Epper Pastor Peter Muis.  Soon Mike took a pastorate in California at a non-denominational charismatic church. Some say he was forced out by Peter Muis, others said it just did not work out.  \par
\par
Pastor Peter Muis was then called.  He tried to turn the place into his personal evangelical empire. He would do a grand entry on Sunday mornings into the sanctuary surrounded by his body guards, who would then surround the stage.  He did no counseling and no direct working with any member of the congregation. He had, on the side, a scandalous relationship with a number of young women supplied to him by a shady character named Eddie.  One of them killed him in his sleep and vanished. \par
\par
The Council of 12 decided to wait for the Lord's clear timing for a pastor.\par
\par
The wait for stone houses was long.  People did not wait until they were completed before moving in.   The existing settlement, which became Hair Bair, was meant to be capped at 250 families (250*4=1000 people, still very big for Eppers), and a second settlement, Hair Mayam, was constructed near the water tower. The third was to be near the quarry, with more settlements to follow. They had six thousand people in the trailers, with more arriving and being born.  Everyone understood this would take years. One house was built at Hair Bair, then one at Hair Mayam, and then more people were asked to join in the stone work.  All those who could did for a while, which increased the rate of production some, but the bottleneck was the low number of final stonefitters, a craft that took years to master. They insisted the houses be built right, and after others attempted one, the final stonefitters disassembled it, trimmed every stone, and fit it correctly. \par
\par
Some new-comers, particularly Jedidiah Banknott, offended the townspeople of Nicholls with behavior intended to be evangelism. He went door to door with a four-question survey, itself innocuous, but got in a shouting match with a few people when Jedidiah did not like the answers, being rather anti-Catholic and a number of the people were firmly Catholic.  Keith Berg had to track down who this was, as he received complaints.  Keith Berg speaks on this, repeatedly, on Sundays, as well as counseling those who offended, when he can determine who it was, which is not always possible. Keith Berg was scheduling the Sunday services, preaching, training the worship team and supervising small group leaders, but did not call himself the pastor and refused to be called the pastor, saying he was only a steward until one came. He resisted supporting overtly charismatic efforts, but allowed them. \par
\par
"This is the omphalos, the center of the universe, the navel," Simon Brot said, gesturing to the south."\par
\par
Keith looked at him.  "Most people sense something evil there, something unholy even, if they sense anything at all."\par
\par
"It is good, it is very good. Power flows from there. Do you not hear it calling?"\par
\par
"I am a little concerned - rather, greatly concerned - by your attitude towards it. Fascination, even.  You are, I believe, in great spiritual danger."\par
\par
"With due respect, bishop, these things are truly only to be seen by the inner knowledge given to those initiated into shhterniggeit. I cannot expect you to have inner light, walking in blindness as you do."\par
\par
"I think you say these things at your peril."\par
\par
\f2\lang9\par
\f0\lang1033\par
\lang9 Simon Brot found the diamond, guided by shterniggeit. He took the diamond and advertised shterniggeit "it got me this - interested? It is the baetylus. There are none like it, and it called to me." A dining hall full of Eppers were not interested: in fact they felt a sense of horror, as if he was worshipping an idol, and they rebuked him.  He took it, saying it was leading him, and threw himself into the ravine in Snake Woods, followed by a few people who stopped at the top of the slope down into the Woods.  \cf1  \cf0 It was not regarded as a good thing, but was dangerous because it was so attractive. Luke found himself tempted to go find it and keep it for himself, and so did the others who had seen it.   Very few knew of it, or where it was, yet someone from outside the Ranch offered large amounts of money if they tell him where it was.  It was tempting to take the money and no longer feel the pull of the stone, but that might have been a lie.   \par
\lang1033\par
Tipharah: The People of Praise, as that defined something of what Ranch spirituality consists of, or rather, what it does not, who rejected work in favor of praise, for example, and thought God would provide, like Elijah and the ravens.  For the Ranch Eppers, work IS praise and is wrapped in offering it up to God, not as an end in itself or merely to provide materially, but as embodying materially what the TTPoP stressed was purely spiritual.  They always found someone else to do their work for them, which is why they were asked to leave.   They continually prophesied a health and wealth gospel with antinomian elements.  They were heavily influenced by the Elijah Company, although there was no overlap of actual members, just some hangers-on.\par
\par
Twelve aurochsen arrived from a settlement in upper New York state along with their newly exiled handlers. The Eppers call their breed of very large cattle aurochsen: something like Heck cattle, but originating centuries earlier, or the original breed or aurochsen bred with other cattle is now unknown.  There were concerns about overgrazing already tenuous land. The cattle were northern European in origin via New York and needed shade in the summer. They did not do well in Missouri summer heat without water spray, shade, and plenty to drink.  They were also tick and fly magnets and need to be closely watched.  The Council of 12 considered running buffalo on the Ranch instead, but the aurochsen were a beloved part of Epper culture.  These ex-Epper handlers set up their settlement with everything in common without personal property, everyone eating together and living together instead of being in separate households. Children were commonly raised.  They honored the sanctity of marriage, however.  They were regarded as truly heretical and although still Christian, sort of over the line with their political structure.   It did not work, and a few years later they moved back into the traditional Epper structure, their experiment finished.  \par
\cf3  \par
\par
\cf0 In 1980 corporate raider Ahab Cane Johnson bought a bank in Harrisonville. Johnson had acquired a reputation for massive wealth via hostile takeovers, raping companies and moving on with the profits, leaving shattered lives, companies, businesses behind him.  People who met him spontaneously described him as disgusting, repulsive, utterly foul, vindictive, petty, greedy, carnal and unashamed. The lobby had several displays concerning the Nicholls Treasure and a painting he commissioned showing the Blythewood lynchings while the Muellers, in the background, make off with the treasure. The Muellers were repulsed by some overtures he made, which may be a consideration in why the Muellers gave it to Jake Profim instead. The Ranch had turned down his offers to finance treasure hunts.  He later purchased the Nicholls Bank and added displays about the treasure, antagonizing the town as he removed a display listing bank employees and custormers who had served in the Corps. He or his agents  made numerous attempts to take the Ranch, and later Kikker Industries, willing or no.  Johnson himself is not seen until the last chapter.  \par
\par
The trailer court east of Nicholls was not yet a bad place.  Johnson was in the background as a major property owner - he bought the Nicholls Trailer Court, just east of town, as well as some distressed ranches in the county and leased them back to to the previous owners, at a loss to them.  Likewise with some properties in Nicholls. Some people from the Ranch fell for it with properties in Nicholls -Johnson owned the dry cleaners, among others: people of his are willing to manage it for a fee plus passing through all expenses and profits/losses go to the owners. Read that as losses, because between the loan and the fees, there was no money to be made but taken. \par
\par
Johnson bought the bank. People had to be careful what they said, as it would get back to him.  This was resented, and people began taking measures against his influence.  There was a quiet, slow war between the town and Johnson and the people he controlled. He also contributed heavily to candidates of his choice, many of whom later resented the contributions. \par
\par
Johnson Bank's lawsuit against the Ranch was finally settled with a jury trial in favor of the Ranch after twenty years of legal manuevering. Speculation was that they were trying to burn up the Ranch's finances in legal fees.  Most of the Ranch lawyers worked pro bono against Johnson Bank, who had made a lot of enemies. \par
\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 5 Marcel\ulnone\b0  September 1998\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720 : \cf1\i established strength\cf0  \i0  \cf3 Marcel is curiously drawn to Snake Woods, \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab but does not get that far\par

\pard\ltrpar\cf2  \cf0\ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 viewpoint of Lydia\par
\par
Lydia, an ex-Epper, returned to the Ranch with her boyfriend Marcel, who argued with people and experiences some miracles (which he misses).  The Ranch was fully developed, with a network of settlements united by trade, communication and special roads.\par
\par
Six settlements had been built, but there are still hundreds of people living in the old trailer compound. Some liked it there.  Others were new to the Ranch, and others were waiting for new houses to be built. Many trailers, empty, were being removed and the material recycled slowly.\par
\par
Dialog version of the main argument in 'He is There and He is not Silent.'\par
\par
Marcel scoffed. He came having heard of all the miracles but fiound none, and no one could point to one or demonstrate one, as if that was how God acts.  They showed him some who have experienced healing, but there was insufficient proof from his point of view that it was an actual miracle.  Has God abandoned them?  No.  It's a miracle in the sense that Lydia came back to faith, and the mysterious people Marcel encounters.  Miracles occur but were missed. Marcel's view is that of course God has not abandoned them, because there is no god. What kind of a good god would abandon people, he wondered. But his answer was that there was no god to abandon them. \par
\par
"I heard that Epper women can snap their hands like a whip crack - you know, faster than the speed of sound." Marcel looked inquiringly at the jongedamme and her mentrix.\par
\par
"The only snapping around here is at foolishness," the mother said.\par
\par
"Well?" Marcel inquired, one eyebrow raised.  "This was just one of those crazy rumors about Eppers, after all, with no basis in fact.  That's what happened when people don't join society but live off by themselves.  I don't think you can do it."\par
\par
Provoked, the jongedamme snapped her hand.  The sharp cracking sound echoed off the walls.  But before she could look pleased she was rebuked and sent away from facing Marcel.\par
\par
"Foolishness leads men into peril," she told Marcel. "People can be so consumed with idle curiosity that they lose the truth. Hell was built for the curious."  Marcel so felt her disapproval that he sought to say something but could not think of anything. \par
\par
Every Utopia has failed, Marcel said.  We are not trying to build a Utopia but simply to live in peace, the elder responded.  Zion Illinois,  Sointula, the Shaker Settlements, the Amana colonies, the North American Phalanx, Brook Farm, Fruitlands, Bishop Hill Community: all failed.  Monastic orders, Salt Lake City, Mennonites, have all succeeded, mostly. \par
\par
Marcel scoffed at the People of Praise.  Years ago the old 'prosperity prophets' had merged into them.  Their message was health and wealth and Marcel considered them trailer trash Christians.\par
\par
Paul de le Grande spent a lot of time as a hermit in a little stone house he built away from the populated areas. Since he was inactive as a pastor, stayed outside of Epper circles, was quiet and unassuming and caused no controversy, the Epper's Committee on Doctrinal Purity overlooked him. He had no interest in anything outside the Ranch and little within it, except for whatever project he and Jesus were working on at the time.  It was said that in his later years he was in continual conversation with God from waking to sleeping and when he died he simply continued the conversation.  It was said it was llikely that he was unaware when he actually died.\par
\par
\par
 \par
\ul\b\fs32 PART TWO\fs22\par
\ulnone\b0  \par
\ul\b\par
Chapter 1 Isaiah Poller\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 viewpoint of Isaiah Poller\par
\par
In the long drought people were more somber than usual because most of the wells were dry, and those that had water were going that way.  Dust was everywhere. Even worship was difficult and God seemed to have hidden Himself. Where are the miracles of long ago? Fellowship seemed strained and everything is dry, dry, dry. \par
\par
\par
 On Wednesday morning Isaiah only picked up on this incidentally.  He overheard a conversation between his mother and her friend. Isaiah was eight years old. \par
\par
His mother found him and his brother Jeremiah feeding worms to the baby. She fiound out they've been doing this for several days. "Well, he's been sleeping better the last few days, but STOP IT." Isaiah was sent outside  [Ranch Isaiah Poller sequence], then giving the reader a tour, , as he wandered around Ha'ir Bair, which he calls Hare Bare. \par
\par
Among other things he sees the old foundation of the stable. It had burned down years ago. Papa said it had been a real work of art, the masterpiece of a master craftsman. Someone named Paul had built it long ago.  Boom's trailers had places where you walked on boards because the particle board floor failed.  He liked it like that because he used the space underneath for storage. His trailers were wearing out, too.  Soon they all would be. Many were already cut into pieces and were being used - cannibalized - cannibalized: he liked that word.  Cannibalized.  \par
\par
Isaiah watched as one of the wild donkeys - they had escaped captivity years ago, and proved too cunning to be caught - got up on the ridge opposite and sniffed for grass, then disappeared down the other side.\par
\par
He heard a train on the the Katy RR, which ran along the west side of Nicholls County, a quarter mile east of the state line. Foot access to the west side is possible via large culverts and bridges.  His Papa once put him in a motorbuggy and they bumped their way to a hilltop, where they looked down and watched a train, full speed, hurtling down the tracks.  Papa told him to stay off railroad bridges because you never know when they may show up and you can get caught and killed. In fact, never go on railroad tracks, ever. Don't even go close. \par
\par
 \par
On Friday morning Isaiah climbed the greenhouse partly to show off to Agatha Pflumm, but mostly to see if he could see Snake Woods, somewhere else he was forbidden from going near. [Isaiah climbs a greenhouse] Agatha was the same age as Isaiah, but she was inside, writing her stories.  She wrote in a beautiful, clear, rounded feminine script with the potential for calligraphic brilliance when she wais older,  in a variety of scripts based on the calligraphy books she had been given. She told  stories about tea parties, as she had since before she could read, involving Rag Doll, Teddy, the Cat, and the Purple Unicorn. Sometimes the Yelllow Unicorn.  They had dull, moralizing conversations about whatever Scripture or moral lesson Agatha had been exposed to that day. Her mother filed them neatly in folders and in file boxes. Rag Doll, in particular, exhorted against the waste of time and laziness and for 'good, honest labor and industry'. In support of that Agatha was only allowed to write for fifteen minutes a day, as most of her time was indeed taken up in good, honest labor and industry.  Teddy moralized on the virtues of thrift and honesty.  The Cat was lazy and never seemed to get the lessons often directed at her. Teddy was fond of keeping your hands off what belonged to others, not being a thief and not stealing.  Above all do not steal glory from God.  She liked to have Teddy list all the ways you could steal glory from God, like self-praise, not-trusting, not-loving what He has made, wastiing time, over-eating, not giving thanks in all things.  \par
\par
The dogs were aware of the unseen boundaries of their own territories and did not cross into other territories unless ordered to.  They were aware of course of who belongs to their own settlement.  Other people from the Ranch were tolerated but could expect several curious dogs to sniff them and accompany them.  People they have been introduced to usually were tolerated, but strangers got barks, growls, even up to an escalation of attacks if they do not leave.  If they threatened the dogs or Ranch people the dogs would not hesitate. They were trained to take down and immobilize although fully capable of killing.  Isaiah's dog stopped at a certain point and barked as Isaiah and Jeremiah headed for Snake Woods, then returned home.\par
\par
\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0 Isaiah  fought the fire at his father's side.\par
\par
\par
He and Jeremiah went down to what was left of Snake Woods, which had been burned out.  He found many bones, human and animal, in Snake Woods.  He may have been the first to ever explore it. Jeremiah found a hole with a tree sticking out of it.  He climbed down it and landed on a shelf as the tree fell further  He found  coins in the hole and climbed out even as the hole was collapsing and expanding.  He went to Butler's in Nicholls and bought a banana split with 1865 coins, telling the boy behind the counter to keep the change.  He left a stunned crowd there staring at the coins.  Once outside, they came out chasing him and he lost the people chasing him by his climbing ability.  He was interviewed in his home by the Sherriff, someone on the Council of 12, and his father.  \ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
"Did you see a diamond? Any bones?"\par
"No," Isaiah replied,"I mean, no diamond.  There were lots of bones, You couldn't walk without stepping on something."\par
"Any shiny rock?"\par
"It was kind of dark. I saw the coins, and there were snakes down below where I was. But no shiny rock."\par
"What about insects? Were there bugs? Biting flies?"\par
"No," Isaiah said,"People say there are some down there. But I didn't see any. Maybe they got all burned up."\par
The men looked at each other. "Maybe we should send someone down there to look at it, survey the situation."\par
"We'll need authorization from DNR to enter that area."\par
"It's burned. Do you think we still do?"\par
"They've been very adamant in the past. I think we need to contact them first."\par
"How long do you think that will take?"\par
"Maybe a couple of weeks."\par
\par
\par
The Council of Twelve responded to the fire with call for a Joel 1:19 prayer meeting and thanksgiving service for all settlements.  But the fire started south of Ha'ir Bair and did not touch settlements in the far south.  It started on Ranch land.  Although it swept passed Nicholls, it did not reach the Cass County line. There was rain to the north. \par
\par
Isaiah's Papa was working on replacing Pump #5 in Ha'ir Mayam.  That pump burned out from overruse. (They had previously lowered it using wooden beams, which had splintered, and replaced that with iron beams, which is why he was involved - and, as happens, the accessway had become cluttered, including with a small stone building, and the well was also collapsing: the stone walls were poorly laid a long time ago, maybe in the War, so the building had to come down). It was  one of the few remaining wells at Ha'r Mayam that had been drilled during the war and later reopened by persons unknown, who had lined it with limestone blocks in the remote past for some distance down.  Twenty feet at least, because that was as deep as anyone had gone in Pa's time here - usually there was water rising to that point, but now all the limestone blocks were exposed.   Ha'ir Bair was importing water from here.   The wells were now marginal and there was talk of drilling deeper wells or even another well field elsewhere, but that cost money and no decision had been made.  The wells were marginal. All rain barrels were empty.\par
\par
Water trucks came daily to Ha'ir Bair and even to Ha'ir Mayam.  Isaiah was watched - he had been told to stay off the water trucks, and they are not convinced he will obey.  He did not appreciate not being trusted with this. Water was  rationed, and Mama had not scrubbed the steps for several weeks, and Isaiah's clothes were getting itchy because they had not been washed for a long time, at least not with water that had not been used for baths already. \par
\par
Katie Poller discussed with her husband what to do about the regulatory fines they were faced with, and a letter they  received.  It was a friendly-sounding offer to loan them the money to pay all their fines, using the Ranch as collateral.   Tempting, but Eppers do not take on loans from outsiders, and the Johnson Bank always seemed interested in the Ranch in an uncomfortable way.  How did Johnson Bank know about the fines?  Probably public information, but this was not the first time they received such a letter. It is like that bank is monitoring their problems with the federal and state regulatory agencies.  Katy will recommend that The Council of 12  not  accept the offer.  Katie is uneasy with the letter from the bank. They do not even have an account there.  The Ranch has a checking account at the Bank of Nicholls, which come to think of it is owned by the Johnson Bank, but why are they so interested in this?\par
\par
Papa told her about the death of the Nicholls Hardware Store owner.  It seemed he had gotten into debt way over his head with Johnson Bank and he had killed himself last night. Johnson Bank was now directly taking over Nicholls Hardware.  Someone had gone in there today to buy lumber and had been told they had been instructed not to sell anything to the Ranch, or to anyone from the Ranch. That was about the fifth business in Nicholls now like that. "I don't like the sound of that." "No. I wonder what their ultimate aim is.  I think their ultimate aim is to take over the Ranch." "A lot of people have been thinking that." \par
\par
There were also some soft spots on the floor of the bathroom - particle board was  giving way. "The Warren is wearing out.  These trailers are old. It's not the first floor that has softened that we have replaced - remember the kitchen, two years ago?" "I  put my foot through it then - that's how we found it. I was moving something heavy - we were between jongedammen, and you were pregnant.  It was a big pot of water, very heavy. It was cold but it went everywhere."  They laughed at the memory. \par
\par
Isaiah's coins were taken to Harrisonville "for testing and valuation" and were not seen again. \par
\par
It was a windowless room in the basement of the Bank of Nicholls. There were three metal chairs, two on one side and one on the other of the old grey table.  A man in his late twenties sat on one side. On the other was an employee of the Bank of Nicholls, and a man from HR who had come down from Harrisonville to conduct the interview, as Johnson Bank had bought the Bank of Nicholls some time ago. The man from Harrisonville held a folder. There was no chit chat - the Nicholls employee smiled and said, "Any Marine in Nicholls is welcome." The man from Harrisonville looked at him, and turned to the interviewee. "I see you spent most of your time in the stockade." "Yes." "Why should we hire you for anything?" Silence. "Tell you what.  We are looking for an employee.  You will get $40,000 a year, use of a car, medical insurance and free housing. And a clothing allowance.  Sounds good?" "Yes." "Only you will do whatever we tell you, and you will not talk about it to anyone else. Is that understood?' He nodded. "And we mean it when we say 'whatever'. Do you understand that?" He nodded again. "Now, we have this file on you." The man from Harrisonville tapped the folder. "It seems you could go right back into the stockade, maybe to Leavenworth, for life.  Or you could do whatever, and I do mean whatever we tell you, instantly, without thinking about it. You learned that in the Marines, right?" The young vet nodded. "No one wants Leavenworth to happen, but I strongly suggest - strongly suggest - you not cross us on anything. D'ya understand?" "Yes, sir," he said, and he knew he was trapped. "If anyone asks you where you work, don't tell them. Tell us who they are and we will take care of the problem." "I don't even know who I'm working for. The Bank of Nicholls?" "Look, kid, I know you are new. Don't be slow on the uptake. I will only say this one time. Your job is not to ask questions. Do you want the job?" "Yes, sir." "We will tell you what you need to know. Understand?" "Yes, sir." "All right, then." \par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 2 Aaron Muis  \par
\par
\cf3\ulnone\b0 We also encounter Mildred Spass, the eternal and seemingly eternally ancient Postmaster of Nicholls, who is determined that no piece of mail should go out the same day it comes into the PO and that any ambiguous or unclear address, of which most are, needs to be investigated before the mail is delivered.  People frequently must come into the PO and show identification and proof of residency at an address to receive mail. She is especially adept at keeping packages from being delivered.  Typically a package will require 3 forms of ID and proof of residency before she will reluctantly hand it over.  You get a card saying We have mail we think may be yours. Please come in. And she moves slowly.  There is a waiting room full of people with numbers, and if you are not served one day, you must come back the next, as her office hours are over promptly at 4 PM.  There is no UPS or Fedex in town, as those are not locally owned and are chains, both of which are strikes against Nicholls.  Some people maintain post office boxes out of town. Both Adrian and Archie have more Nicholls related boxes than are in those towns. \cf0\ul\b\par
\par
\b0 Drive to Nicholls\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 Aaron glanced over at the scrunched up, insignificant form of Deem Futz wadded up in the seat beside him. He considered again turning the car around and heading back north, it being madness to even take Deem to the interview. \cf2  \cf0 Aaron had to consider his own relationship with the Nicholls elders, and they would blame him for this.   The temptation was sharper with every exit, beginning with the Cass County line at 155th Street. It was stronger at 163rd Street and it was only with an effort that he did not take the Highway 58 exit.  He'd conquered it, though, by the time he got to the next exit: what would he tell the bishop, his boss, to whom he had promised whole-hearted obedience and loyalty.  His own reputation was on the line here.  He would have to work with the church in Nicholls long after this interview was over, if the church still existed, if the candidate somehow managed to pull that sinking church out of its dive.  And this candidate... But orders were orders, and he willingly obeyed the bishop in everything.  This probably was the biggest test he had ever had in that regard.  Nicholls, of all places, getting this candidate, of all candidates. It was a recipe for disaster. He had discussed that with the bishop.  And now here he was, ferrying said candidate to the interview with the Session, the elders of the Nicholls Church.  It would not be an interview as much as a firing squad, a chopping block, a meat grinder.  He himself would say nothing at the interview itself - that would be between the Session and the candidate.  His was to observe, and to report back to the bishop.  He already had that report partly written in his mind, and the bishop would agree that Deem Futz was the wrong candidate.\par
\par
 Also Deem was very underweight from starving alone in his apartment in Michigan - Aaron had fattened him up before the interview, which was now three weeks later than planned - and from Aaron's persepctive he seemed to almost have given up hope - the second fatal in Nicholls, the worst of all traits.    Aaron was again concerned about how forlorn, defeated and gut-punched Deem looked - likely they would never accept him. He reminded himself as to why he was taking Deem to the interview.  \cf2\par
\cf0\par
\par
Short. Skinny. Immemorable. Aaron forgot what the guy looked like every time he looked away, and he had to look at him twice every time to be sure he was really there. There was something about him that made the eye want to pass over him, as if anything else would be more interesting. This would be it, though.  Today Deem Futz would pass out of Aaron's life after getting the right boot of fellowship at this interview. He would go somewhere - Aaron really didn't care where, past the normal human concern for another human - and life would go back to normal.  The Nicholls church would probably wait for months for another candidate and then reject the next one.  Aaron had requested someone else be assigned liaison to Nicholls, and the bishop had pointed out that Aaron knew them, and if Aaron was right, the church would close soon and he, Aaron, would have that problem solved.  Until then he needed to carry this cross. Thy will be done, Lord.  He, Aaron Muis, would carry out this mission as if it was his own, as if directly commanded from the Throne. That said Throne had heard enough, though, and wanted to hear no more from him on the point of him being reassigned.  "My grace is sufficient for thee." Aaron had spent time before that Throne meditating on 2 Corinthians 12:1-10 until he had surrendered all this to that Throne.  Nonetheless it kept returning, bubbling up at the actual sight of Deem Futz.  \par
\par
All Aaron's faith, all his inner resolution and promises to God and the bishop evaporated whenever he saw this unknown, insignificant person.  There was something about him that made Aaron simply want to slap him away. Insignificant.  Aaron had to remind himself that there were no little people, that no one was insignificant in the sight of God.  Deem seemed to prove that false very convincingly, and that insignificance was the one thing that stood out about him, like a superpower.  Deem had interviewed at a number of churches and settlements, but had been passed over, rejected, sometimes with an angry letter to Seminary Placement concerning the candidate, often viewed only as worthy of complete rejection by the elders. Some had written and wanted to know when he had come, and he had come.  They had forgotten he had. One settlement had asked him to come out of curiosity - could any candidate be this bad?  It was not a job offer, just a curious lark, a waste of their time, a folly.  This bishop had known Deem at the seminary, and Aaron had not figured out why the bishop urged Nicholls to interview him. Or what there was to know.   Maybe the bottom candidate for the bottom church? Nicholls Epper had a reputation.  Long ago it had had the great Jake Profim as pastor before the CDP had ruled on him, and then the great Pastor Smit, but then there was Pastor Hartmann and his wreckage.  Deem Futz as pastor would be the cherry on top.  More accurately, the straw to break the camel's back. That church was down to less than two dozen staunch and bitter ex-Marines and their wives.  Grim, angry, reactionary, bitter after the fight over getting Hartmann out of there, that should have taken a lot less effort, far fewer words, far less fire and brimstone from that Session, and there was still something simmering between the Bishop and the Presbytery and Nicholls. Futz as the bishop's insult?  Aaron shook his head.  That would be nasty beneath his episcopacy.  But was it?  The bishop had not been there very long, after all.  Aaron did not know him that well.  The bishop was often opaque to Aaron, formal, remote, and did not feel he needed to explain himself, as indeed he did not, to Aaron, but at the same time he demanded utter honesty from Aaron, and Aaron felt like he was an open book to the bishop, who sometimes seemed to know him better than he himself did.   Nicholls needed a good, savvy pastor who could rescue a sinking church. But they were staunchly and determinedly Marines down there, or rather their own Marine culture that somehow was super-Marine.  They fed off each other.  Hartmann, the ex-Navy retired chaplain, had made it worse.  Now they could only continue, by mutual consent, if they had a pastor who had never been in the military.  But any good pastor, the sort of pastor they needed, would take one look at the place and run.  That left only the bottom dregs of the seminary as candidates, not the sort of people who could pull a rescue, but also not the sort of people they could accept or follow.  And Deem Futz had, by now, no other choices.  So here was the perfect storm of the worst church in the denomination matched up with the worst candidate.  Aaron figured the church would be gone by winter unless God did something miraculous. He didn't deny that might happen. \par
\par
He remembered hearing of how, at graduation, Deem had been 'passed over'.  Traditionally the dean prayed a specially written prayer over each student.  Sometimes they were lengthy. The gentleman before Deem had gotten a prayer many on the faculty had contributed to, long and full of promise.  He got to Deem, did not even look at him and simply passed him to the next graduate. There was some sort of mix-up: his name was not called and there was no diploma.  They told him there was a mix-up that had never happened before and he could pick it up at the office next day.  However, the office was closed for the traditional two weeks after graduation. His file indicated he had not graduated, but the secretary commented that everything was there.  She gave the file to  her supervisor, who told Deem she would review it and apologized for the delay. She would look into it and get back to him.  Two weeks later she did - his diploma had been ordered but had come back incorrect and had to be redone. A month after that, there was a correct diploma, but issuance was on hold until his bill had been paid.  But it was paid, so they would have to talk to the bursar and get back to him.   They finally gave him the diploma and a statement that all bills were paid.  When he got home that day, there was a letter stating that his application to the seminary had been declined.  He took it into the Admissions office and they apologized for the error. None of Deem's family had come for graduation.\par
\par
He asks Deem if that was true.  It was. And Aaron was unlikely to hear of the old man with the crazy look, a fellow with thick glasses and no hair, who came up to Deem afterwards and whispered "Congratulations," and made off.  He left a piece of paper in Deem's hand that said \f3\rtlch\lang1037\'eb  \'e5\'cc\'f0\'c0\'fa\'c7\'fa\'cc\'c4\'e9\'ea\'c8 \'ec\'c8\'f2\'c8\'ed \'e4\'c7\'e6\'cc\'c6\'e4, \'ec\'c0\'e7\'e5\'c9\'ee\'c7\'fa \'f0\'c0\'e7\'c9\'f9\'d1\'c6\'fa \'e1\'cc\'c0\'f6\'e5\'cc\'f8\'c8\'e4, \'e5\'c0\'f0\'c4\'ec\'c0\'e7\'c2\'ee\'e5\'cc \'e0\'c5\'ec\'c6\'e9\'ea\'c8, \'e5\'c0\'ec\'c9\'e0-\'e9\'e5\'cc\'eb\'c0\'ec\'e5\'cc \'ec\'c8\'ea\'c0:  \'eb\'cc\'c4\'e9-\'e0\'c4\'fa\'cc\'c0\'ea\'c8 \'e0\'c2\'f0\'c4\'e9 \'ec\'c0\'e4\'e5\'c9\'f9\'d1\'c4\'e9\'f2\'c2\'ea\'c8 \'e5\'cc\'ec\'c0\'e4\'c7\'f6\'cc\'c4\'e9\'ec\'c6\'ea\'c8, \'f0\'c0\'e0\'cb\'ed-\'e9\'c0\'e4\'e5\'c8\'e4\f0\ltrch\lang1033 . What's that, Aaron asked. His Hebrew was very rusty, but he could tell it was Hebrew. It was actually written in the old letters, in a form of Phoenician script, not the modern Assyrian or Hebrew cursive, which is what he would have expected.  He had had to go to the library and translate it. It could be translated as, "And I will make thee unto this people a fortified brazen wall; and they shall fight against thee, but they shall not prevail against thee; for I am with thee to save thee and to deliver thee, saith the LORD." The next day, with a shock, he read the verse of the day in the Epper Epistle, Jeremiah 15:20.  That's amazing, Aaron said. \par
\par
Then his phone rang. Aaron got a telephone call from Deem's mother, who asked to speak to her son. She had been trying to call him, since he told her he was going to be in the KC area and his telephone had been disconnected months ago. Aaron heard it because Deem did not turn it from speaker phone. \par
\par
She told Deem he had been nothing but trouble lately. Why couldn't he settle down and act normal? A good son would be there when his parents grew old. \par
\par
"Woe to me, mother, that you have bourne me, a man of strife and contention," he told her.  She said it is because he has taken this seminary path.  They wanted him back home to watch cattle.  That is something he wa good at.  No good getting involved in the ways of pastors - next thing you know you will be on trial or something, and it is worse, far worse, than cattle ranching.  Give up on this whole thing, You are like the prodigal son. Your father will welcome you home with open arms."\par
\par
"You are saying I am prodigal here?"\par
\par
"Well, yes.  They told me you are meeting with a church. Nicholls. Son, that church has a terrible reputation. The town, I mean, and the church there, too.  Crazy ex-Marines. Everyone is armed.  Don't go there. Please. Your mother will worry about you. You may want to throw your life away in some crazy idea that you are called, but I don't see you as a pastor.  You barely made it through your studies and some of the things that happened embarrassed us.  Please, son.  We will pay for you to come back home.  We are praying for you, that you will come to your senses and come home."\par
\par
"I have to see this through, Mother."\par
\par
"I wish you would listen to your Mother."  She sighed. "I doubt they will take you, anyway. Promise you will come back home if they don't take you? And I know they won't. I just don't see it."\par
\par
Deem sighed. "Mother, I will certainly consider it. I really don't know if this will work out. "\par
\par
"And if, for some reason, God forbid, they want you, I think you should decline it. Will you promise you will decline it?"\par
\par
"No, Mother, I will not promise that.  I must do what God wants."\par
\par
"And God wants you to obey your parents. I see no reason to continue this discussion," she said, breaking into tears,  "we will pray for you. We had such hopes for you, and now - oh my son, don't do this to your father and me."  Aaron had to listen to Deem's mother cry over the phone as Deem kept trying to talk to her.  Finally she hung up. \par
\par
There was an awkward silence.  Aaron considered that Deem was more than some kind of stock tragic figure - he was a real human being, despite the temptation Aaron had to consider him as less than that.  He had human dignity, and knew sorrow.  Probably more than Aaron realized.  \par
\par
It was a shame about the Nicholls church.  It had had the famous Jake Profim as pastor, years ago, before he had been declared a heretic and exiled, taking half the church with him.  It had recovered and prospered amazingly under the great Pastor Smit, even building the largest Epper sanctuary in the world and becoming the only Protestant church in town, so good was he.  Then they had insisted on a Navy chaplain like Smit, and they chose Hartmann.  Now they had lost the building, most of the congregation, and they were down to only a very few Marines holding their position. \par
\par
\lang9 Another thing Deem should know is Nicholls was also running low on water. And \lang1033 Nicholls peaked in the 1920s during the Great Treasure Hunt, when people tore up the Mueller property and left in frustration, yet others kept coming.  At one point Nicholls boasted three hotels and fifteen restaurants.  The hotels are all gone as are most of the restaurants. Some buildings still sit empty.\par
\par
A minute later they took the steep Nicholls ramp up to where Main Street crossed the highway.\par
\par
"You are now leaving reality, and entering a pseudo-Marine fantasy land," Aaron said on the exit ramp. He pasued. "I should not have said that. Please forget I said that. These people -"  He shook his head. He would not allow himself to hate them.  Professionally he could not.  He was called to love them, despite their impossibility, their determined arrogance and resilience to any outside idea, anything they considered non-Marine.  \par
\par
"Okay."  Deem watched a motorbuggy, clearly the first he had ever seen. It was a wooden box on four giant wooden wheels, with a mast and boom for a sail, but the sail was furled. One man sat on the bench in front, and another hung on to the boom in the rear as it hummed along.   Four crew-cut men, their jeans matching and their shirtsleeves rolled identically, were marching in step unconciously, arms swinging the same, as they walked somewhere. Each had a holster on his right hip. They nodded in unison as they passed someone.\par
\par
"Nicholls: Home of the Bulldogs - All Marines are Welcome Here" the sign said. \par
\par
They drove on Main for several blocks before turning north to the church. \par
\par
"All trucks.  And everyone seems fit," Deem observed.\par
\par
"Yep."  Aaron considered his own slight paunch.  He was always self-conscious down here.  He was not a Marine, he did not measure up, and they always silently let him know that. In Pastor Smit's day it had been a warm and welcoming fellowship of people who truly loved each other and loved God more - things had gone downhill and now they had the bitter end. He impercitibly shook his head.\par
\par
"You have doubts about me," Deem said,"I know. I don't blame you."\par
\par
He was supposed to build the candidate up.  He felt worse.  Deem knew. This sucked the last vestige of any kind of pleasure at all from this.  The whole thing was approaching indecency.  \par
\par
 They passed the Butler's and from behind the big window, from a booth on one side, a wild-looking man glared at Deem until they could see each other no more.  \par
\par
"That's Crazy Harry," Aaron said,"I was warned to stay away from him. Seeing him puts a chill on my heart." Deem nodded.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\lang9 Deem reflected to Aaron on that sequence in the beginning of Romans 5, though he was weak and had been emotionally down, he did not run on physical strength or emotional energy. He still, inwardly, rejoiced.\lang1033\par
Aaron tells Deem that Nicholls County records state that Marine vets founded Nicholls in the late 1860s.  He puts it that way because some say the town was pre-Civil War but he's heard there is no proof.  Rumors of buried treasure passed from lip to lip: a persistant rumor was that the Marines settled the town to hunt for the treasure on the Mueller property, as Nicholls County has nothing, really, to offer anyone except poor pasturage. So there are two "ideal societies" here, one founded on Marine principles, the other on Epper.  Do they conflict?  Not really. \par
\par
Aaron told Deem one version of the legend of the treasure, and how there is also supposed to be a diamond, some say in Snake Woods.  He told of Simon Brot's death. \par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 They drove past the end of the brick-fronted buildings.  They passed several blocks of one-story frame houses, each shaded by trees with shriveled leaves and carefully tended but dried grass - there was a no-watering order on -and turned right on Henderson.  After a few blocks of these houses with wide porches all around and trees and each with a garden, and most with a US flag and a USMC flag proudly flying, they came to the church, a white frame structure that could only have a single aisle, its peaked roof sterotypical of small rural churches in this part of the country.  It could have been anywhere. Well, anywhere pancake flat. \par
"This church is back here now," Aaron explained. "Pastor Smit built a bigger church and sold this one to the baptists, but everyone from that church plant wound up at the Epper Church. Smit was good. Then this church lost their building due to financial reasons - the bank took it - and they came back to their own old bulding." Deem said nothing.  If anything, he looked ill. \par
 With a grimace Deem saw that the parking lot was gravel. He hated gravel and wasn't even sure how to walk on it. It was sort of \i de classe\i0 . He'd hoped to have left that a long time ago. At sem you could park in the parking lots, or in overflow on the grass. But gravel? It was for impoverished third world countries and extremely rural poor areas. Back in the depths of Appalachia there were gravel roads. There it was acceptable.   But here? In town?  You got ruts and potholes and it got tracked onto the pavement.  Maybe out on the rural roads there might be some gravel driveways, but this was tacky.  And what about the dust on his new suit and his carefully shined shoes?  Perhaps they could pave it soon.  He had no idea how the church was doing financially.  Aaron had said little, and Deem had asked less.  If he was interested, he would have asked questions.  But he was just going through the motions.\par

\pard\ltrpar Deem gritted his teeth at the sound the wheels made as Aaron unhesitatingly turned into the parking lot and carefully parked.  As they got out Deem noticed the gravel had been impeccably maintained, rolled solid without any holes or ruts.  \i  \i0 Deem looked around at the five fullsized pickup trucks in the parking lot.  Each had a gun rack across the back of the cab. Variations on "MARINE" and the Eagle, Globe and Anchor were on every  truck. Five elders, five trucks.  \par
\par
\lang1033\par
"You left the key in the ignition."\par
\par
"I know.  You do that in Nicholls."\par
\par
"Why?"\par
\par
Aaron shrugged. "God only knows.  City law. Some Marine thing.  I guess in case they need to move your car to let a tank through or use it as a barricade."\par
\par
"Don't cars get stolen?"\par
\par
"Not in Nicholls.  Not with everyone armed. I expect no car has ever been stolen. Trucks, either.  Few cars, as you perhaps noticed."\par
\par
Deem nodded.\par
\lang9\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Aaron checked his watch. He was only five minutes late. Now he looked at the church again, now a rather severe looking white clapboard building with a basement entrance on this side. They went down the steps to the basement door and the building seemed to lean over Deem, imposing itself on him, crushing him. Who are you, little man? Go away.  The main door was  on the other side.  He could see the church sign but it was facing away from him. The oven-heat was hitting themin the sun and Deem was covered in sweat by the time he got to the door.  It was newly painted and completely free of cobwebs.  The whole town, Aaron reflected, was overly clean. No chipped paint anywhere. No trash on the ground. Obsessively, compulsively, neurotically clean.  Aaron felt like a slob anytime he came to Nicholls.  It was just so perfect. \f2\par
\f0 Aaron knocked on the immaculate door, wondering if they would wipe the grease off from his knuckles later. After a silent minute, in which Deem fought the urge to simply turn around and leave as fast as possible,  Aaron amiled and he opened it silently.\f2\par
\f0\lang1033 Deem lost his stomach contents right in the open door, splattering vomit on the newly scrubbed threshhold and the lower part of the door and the concrete walls. He turned to Aaron, vomit dripping off his chin. "The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak."  He staggered forward into \lang9 the cool darkness through the puddle.  The darkness was refreshing \lang1033 and the dry heaves subsided in a minute. "What's that smell?" someone asked from the dark interror.  "You've been puking?" Deem nodded.  Aaron decided that pretty much ended this interview. Aaron shut the door. He\lang9  stood back and motioned for Deem to go forward. He would observe.\f2\par
 \par

\pard\ltrpar\f0\lang1033\par
\par
\ul The Interview\ulnone   \par
\par
The flurry of voices from the darkness continued. Hey - you better clean that up.  That ends this right now. Disgusting.  Can't hold his lunch.  What is the matter with him. Do we need to interview further. Wasted enough time here today.  \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 "You Futz?" asked a gruff voice sitting somewhere in the shadows.  They have been waiting, these elders, and he was late. All that was in those two stacatto words.  You should be somewhere ten minutes early, Aaron recalled with a shock, here.   By Nicholl's time he was fifteen minutes late.  They were of the mindset, he recalled, that there was a lotta work a man could do in fifteen. Ruder'n all get out to keep someone waiting, let alone the elders whom he was meeting for a pastoral interview. Not a good start. Not at all.\par
That, also, was in those two words.\par
They didn't bother getting up. The nearest frowned when Deem extended his hand to shake.\par

\pard\ltrpar\lang1033 "Coffee," someone said.  Deem looked down at his hand, as if surprised that a cup of coffee was now in it. Over the acrid smell of vomit Aaron could smell the slightly-burned bitter coffee that for some reason was loved in Nicholls. Here and there were grey ceramic mugs embalzoned with USMC in red, or the globe and anchor, or MARINE and one that said PROPERTY OF MCRD PARRIS ISLAND.  Not a single styrofoam cup in Nicholls.  Deem's cup, Aaron noticed, was a dainty, feminine-looking tea cup. That was uncalled for.  There was Kitten Pfingster, the oldest Marine in Nicholls, staring off with a faraway look.  He was more often on a Pacific Island in the early 1940s these days than he was in the present. His eyes seemed to be scanning the opposite wall for possible Jap soldiers hidden in the cracks. Kitten was always on the alert, always on watch.  You did not touch him without warning, because his assumption, always, was any touch was from an infiltrator in his foxhole.  And he was armed, not just with a revolver but a Ka-Bar knife sharpened to perfection, seven inches of death in a sheath.  People in Nicholls were very respectful of each other. All these elders were armed, every chamber loaded in every revolver, if they had them, or full clips, and safety on.  Aaron had heard it was illegal in Nicholls for a weapon in public to not be ready to be fired.\par
\par
\lang9 "Yes, sir," Deem replied nervously.  Aaron noted that when he was nervous his voice went up. Aaron was suddenly struck at the gulf between Deem and these Nicholls Marine elders.  They were aliens from different worlds making first contact, from  entirely different worlds, cultures, outlooks on life.  If you went to deepest darkest Borneo you would have to learn the language.  But learning theirs, even though he knew it was English, might be far harder.  The men stared at Deem's new suit, he stared at their short hair and their beards, their overalls, their calloused, meaty, powerful hands, their eyes.  Some of those eyes said they had seen things they never, ever talked about, memories that they stuffed deep inside. Those hard eyes were not friendly in their examination of Deem Futz. It seemed to Aaron that they regarded Deem as they would someone who washed out of Boot Camp the first day, or worse.  Deem stood there patiently, not moving, waiting for questions.  Frowns were exchanged among them. They were solid, hardworking, strong, established people, all at least ten years older, if not twenty, than Deem. The normal age for an Epper to become an elder was sixy, but that was not always observed.  Each looked like they could break Deem in half with one hand, even the ones who looked like they had passed the eighty year mark. And like they really didn't care whether they could break him.  He was irrelevant, except there he was being a nuisance. Somewhere in the silence, away in the dark depths of the church, was a tiny sound, either a clock ticking or an insect or water dripping - Aaron was not sure which - that normally you would never hear.  Only in awful silence do you hear such things. For Deem's sake, Aaron curled his toes up inside his shoes.  The bishop could not possibly have grasped how irreconcilable the differences were.  He now pitied Deem and wished he had not brought him into this, not for Aaron's own sake, now, but for Deem.  Here Aaron noted his personal sympathy rising beyond his professional detachment.  They were going to murder him. He was ashamed of himself for having wished this would happen.  He did not know that he could stomach watching this - he knew these men well enough.  It was likely they would make Deem break down and cry.  For all he knew, he, Aaron, would also be made to cry. \lang1033\par
\par
They watched silently as Deem did not realize the end of his tie had gone into the coffee until suddenly and awkardly he removed it and wrung out his tie in front of them.  They said nothing. Aaron saw it and a cold feeling went up his spine as he watched.  His stomach was already knotted.   He wondered when his headache would start. Deem of course was worse off.  The sooner this was over the better. Sandy Sands continued long, smooth strokes.  He was sharpening his Ka-Bar.  A little can of oil was on a piece of paper on the table in front of him.  He was using Deem's resume to blot oil.  Aaron never had liked these guys. \par
\par
Deem found something to break the silence. "Mr. Muis told me you are ex-Marines.  My dad was in the army, just like you. So I understand soldiers." They curtly explained they were Marines, not ex-Marines, not soldiers, in the Corps, not the army.  "We got a winner here," someone said.  Aaron could not locate the source of that comment.\par
\cf3\lang9\par
\cf0 "Who is clerk of session now?" Aaron asked into the bleak silence.\par
\par
"Mr. Muis, you should know that.  You should also make sure your candidate arrives on time.  But we blame him, not you, for that.  I'm Sandy Sands. Clerk of Session.   Also here are Kitten Pfingster, Nathan Bread, Dennis Opp, Chips.  Mike Spinkster isn't here. We are down to this size because, well, the church isn't so big anymore.  It doesn't matter who's who because this interview is about over."  The others nodded, barely, at the mention of their names. \par
\lang1033\par
Besides the elders, in the back of the room an elderly woman was sitting quietly on a folding chair.\par
\par
"Welcome," Sandy said.  But that was clearly only a formality.  Aaron felt his blood running cold.  His sharpening was more interesting than this candidate. Anyway that's where his eyes were. \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 "Thank you," Deem replied.\par
"Let's skip any more introductions," someone said.  There were murmurs of agreement.\lang1033\par

\pard\ltrpar "That's Mabel, our prayer warrior," Sandy Sands said, jerking a thumb over his shoulder in her direction without turning.  He pronounced 'prayer warrior' with a slight sneer.  She waved slightly, but oddly - not at Deem but as if someone else was there.  But there were only Deem and himself and the five elders - no one in the direction she waved.  Aaron thought anyone called a prayer warrior must be slightly screwy in the head anyway, and the other elders gave a slight smirk - obviously they had had dealiings with this Mabel before.  Just a crank like you find in some churches. \par
\par
"I want a leader who can inspire me," Chips said,"I want someone I can follow into religious combat."\par
\par
"I think you mean spiritual combat," Dennis Opp said.\par
\par
"Whatever.  And you don't inspire me.  I don't think there is anything you can say that would change that. Bottom line, mister, is the bottom line. Pastor Smit had been a highly decorated Marine captain of unquestioned honor and respect who went to seminary and returned as a Navy chaplain.  He served the Corps and then this church. We went looking for someone like him and found Pastor Hartmann-"\par
\par
"Which is exactly why we are looking for a non-Marine."\par
\par
"One mistake."   There was some agreement.\par
\par
"There are no Navy chaplains retiring and looking. No Protestants, anyway."\par
\par
"Well, we aren't going to take a priest," someone said.  There was a ripple of laughter.\par
\par
"So, Deacon Aaron Muis, why did you bring this specimen before us?"  Chips looked at Deem with undisguised contempt, from the vomit on his shoes to his damp tie and strangely unnoticable face. "Gaw, man. Why?" His sour look set on Aaron.  At least he was not sharpening a knife at the moment.  \par
\par
"The bishop thinks he would be a good fit."\par
\par
"He's new, after all. Does not know Nicholls."\par
\par
"He knows you well enough."\par
\par
"This Deem Futz is an insult. Take him away."\par
\par
"Please.  Just take him away."  This was Nathan Bread, shooing him. \par
\par
Sandy looked up from his knife for a moment at Deem. "I think I will ask one question, and then we will have formally conducted our interview, and this charade can be over.  Now, how in the world can you lead this church?  Think carefully before you answer."  People were already starting to get up to leave. Sandy put away his oil can.  He crumbled the resume into a ball and tossed it perfectly into a trash can some ten feet away. \par
\par
"Well," Deem said, "I would rather be an object of mercy than competent but condemned."\par
\par
"What's that?" It caught them off guard.\par
\par
Deem repeated it. \par
\par
"I'm not sure what you are saying. Between merit and grace, we lean heavily towards merit. It's a Marine thing." someone told Deem. "You don't seem to measure up."\par
\par
"That is true.  If I pastor this church, it would be by the mercy of God and by His grace, not by my competence."\par
\par
"Your competence.  That is an amusing idea.  There is nothing on your resume that says you have ever led anything.  No indication of competence anywhere, for any reason."\par
\par
"Yes, I would be trusting God, not myself," Deem said calmly. \par
\par
"Sounds like you have an underdeveloped sense of personal responsibility.  One day with a DI would straighten that out."\par
\par
"He would never make it into the Corps."\par
\par
"No.  Not Marine material."\par
\par
"Definitely not."  \par
\par
Dennis Opp had been taken aback more than the others.  He had a careful, thoughtful look about him now. "Mr. Futz, please repeat what you said."\par
\par
"I said I would rather be an object of mercy than competent but condemned."\par
\par
"Thank you. That is strangely put, but I can live with it.  Is that original?"\par
\par
"I don't know if it is original. You see -"\par
\par
"I don't want to waste any more time here," Kitten said abruptly. "What happened to Garrison?"  Garrison was an interim pastor, specializing in troubled churches and settlements.  \par
\par
"He's no longer interested."  Aaron told them,"I think he has heard too much about you, bluntly."\par
\par
"Well, we are blunt."\par
\par
"I would like to follow up with this candidate one on one," Denns Opp said, "I have some time tomorrow morning.  Would you be available?"\par
\par
Deem nodded. \par
\par
"Let's just get this over with." Several other voices cross-talked, expressing the same thing.  Sandy held up his hand.  "Dennis has the right to do so," he said.   \par
\ul\lang9\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone There was another awkward silence.  Aaron hoped it would end soon, and he could go off somewhere and be miserable.  What could he possibly say to Deem.  Or to the bishop?  This was even worse than he had imagined. \par
"Well, we have two other candidates to look at. You'll be preaching Sunday. By the way, with all respect, people are on time in this town. Best to remember that. With all due respect. By coming this late you answered our biggest question. All. Due. Respect. Sir."\par

\pard\ltrpar With that they explained, there  was work waiting, and they left him there. They each carefully said their goodbyes to Aaron. "Make sure he cleans up that vomit."  They clumped up the front steps, going around the superdisgustingly filthy civilian defiled basement entryway.  \par
\par
"You'll find cleaning supplies in a closet here - somewhere in the basement.  Where, I don't know.  But anyplace this clean has got to have at least one cleaning closet," Aaron told his candidate. "And they want it Marine-clean.  Like your grandmother could eat off of it.  Clean yourself up, too, and then explore the building. Maybe it would help you understand these people better. I'd like to speak to those guys before they leave." Aaron carefull stepped around the vomit and intercepted them before they got to their trucks. \par
\lang1033\par
\ul Aaron and the Elders\par
\ulnone  Aaron and the elders exit and had a heated conversation in the parking lot. Instead of deflecting blame to the bishop, Aaron finds himself defending Deem as the bishop would. After all, he is representing the bishop here. He realizes that Deem really has something that they should admire, endurance, and there is strength in his weakness.  This gives them something to think about. Besides, he is the only candidate? No, there wre two others.  They want to meet the others and just say no to Deem.  Outrageous insult.  What does the bishop think by sending him down here? It's not Aaron's fault.  They are still unhappy about us getting rid of Hartmann.  The church may close.  It may close anyway.  There is the Ranch. Bunch of torn-up trailers with poor people, that's all that is.  They passed their peak decades ago.  Probably worse than the trailer court.  Johnson probably bought 'em out and is doing God knows what out there.  If it weren't for Kikker the whole place would be deserted again.  No. The church over in Clinton or the one in Grandview. Nevada is too far.  We might as well close the doors if either of these other two candidates is no good. Probably Deem Fuzz is the best of the three.  That is a shame. It iused to be that we got good candidates.  That's before we ticked everybody off - the bishop AND the presbytery. \lang9 We wonder if their assessment from his resume and recommendations that Deem has initiative, enthusiasm and endurance is correct.  They find all three singularly lacking in him from their interview. \par
\par
"He called us \i soldiers\i0 . You should have prepped him. We are Marines. That is enough to sink him right there." The others nodded.\par
\par
"You people wanted another retired Navy chaplain.  Well, they don't want to touch Nicholls."\par
\par
"Why not?"\par
\par
"That should be obvious."  Aaron could tell from their faces it wasn't. Nor was he in a mood to invite an argument about it.\par
\par
"Where's Mike? Anyone hear from him?"\par
\par
"I'm trying to get ahold of Spinkster.  I know what he said about Deem from his resume. I figure he just gave up on this church - he wasn't there Sunday, either. He hasn't made church or any of our meetings in over a month now."\par
\par
"After one-fifty years here you can't just give up on this church. A lot of history."\par
\par
"Many people have."  It was painfully true. "Sad to lose Mikee Spinkster. He was a pillar here."\par
\par
"Yep."  \par
\cf3\lang1033\par
\par
Kitten is the gung-hoingest Marine, Nathan is more thoughtful, Dennis a judge and retired Marine officer having served in the Marine justice system, Mike ??? Chips a farmer with theological bent, Sandy Sands ex-Ranch ex-Marine.   \par
\cf0\par
\ul Deem Prayed\ulnone  \par
\par
Deem searched the church basement for the cleaning closet.  T\lang9 he basement doubled as a fellowship hall, where he was now, and currently had folding tables and folding chairs set up in neat, orderly, overly precise rows.  There were little marks on the floor where the table corners should go, he noted. It was likely surveying equipment had been used to get them exact, and the marks were identical in length and direction. Eppers tended to be excessively and obsessively concerned with detail, but this went beyond Deem's experience.  The mop closet, with the stenciled "MOP CLOSET Authorized Personnel Only" on the door in red,  held the water heater and furnace, and a sink with the coffee maker and supplies, but no mop or cleaning supplies.  The mop and bucket were in a corner of the smallrestroom, standing attention next to a rigorously ordered metal shelf with cleaning supplies laid out precisely, everything immaculately scrubbed and clean. There was a large locked closet that said "DECORATIONS" on its sign, and "DECORATING COMMITTEE ONLY" in stenciled letters. Upstairs was the sanctuary. No office. No nursery. But everything was scrubbed to an inch of its life.  \par
\par
The foyer was the width of the building, about ten feet or so wide.  It was completely bare.  One said held the door to the outside, the other to the sanctuary.  He debated with himself - would he really want to go into a sanctuary of a church that would never be his - like he was so close, but so far away.  It would be easier to stay out, to never know what it looked like, to go out the door and never look back.  He put his hand on the door knob and stopped.  He turned around and walked into the sanctuary instead.\par
\par
"Meet Every Challenge With Your All," read one banner. Another, "Be Strong and Very Courageous, for the Lord Your God is with You Wherever You Go - Josh 1:9" read another, and "Suffer Hardship with Me as a Good Marine of Christ Jesus 2 Tim 2:3".  There was that quiet sadness again.  "Greater Love Has No Man Than This,That He Lay His Life Down For His Friends John 15:13." \lang1033\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 He had an eerie feeling of being quietly, patiently, lovingly watched.   Suddenly the walls were covered with pictures of young men in uniform, some in groups of twenty or so, some staring out, with the US flag in the background.  There were little labels on the pictures. "We finished our race. We gave our all. Will You?" he could read in the eyes of Edmund Spence, Cpl USMC, 1900-1918 KIA. There was a picture of a couple, smiling, in civilian clothing , against a tropical background, but instead of the US flag was a white flag with a blue cross on it. 'John and Angela Bourne, Missionaries 2015, KIA".  He remembered that incident as it had happened while he was at sem: they had been taken hostage on the mission field and killed. KIA, then, was 'Killed in Action'.   This church had paid in blood for its right to exist. This town was - well, he, Deem Futz was first of all unworthy to be here, but this answered something in him that this church, this town, was really alien to him, and there was no way he could ever measure up or even understand them.  There were other pictures of missionaries, other military pictures.  The walls were covered with them, all of them looking out, the missionaries with smiling, relaxed faces.  All of them had the dates completed.  All were KIA or MIA.  Not Momma Mia. Missing in Action?  He could hear soft, music playing.  But he was alone.  \par
He sat down, three pews back from the front,, in the silent church, in the stillness.  In the remote past, he remembered, he had powerfully experienced the presence of God in a silent church. But now waves of feeling from his youth were rising, when he had read too much science fiction. The cold, hard, uncaring vacuum of space. The wheeling, uncaring stars. The cosmic emptiness. The lack of meaning of life.  Futility. All was vanity. What meaning could any of this have?  What purpose? What goal was there that was worth pursuing? What treasure besides a God who was silent and absent? As a deep pants for water so my heart yearns for Thee, O God, he prayed. Why would men replace heaven with a cold hardness of space, and exchange God who loved them for an apathetic cosmos that woud indifferently crush them? Why do people turn from Him Who will not turn from them? And yet, how far, how far off God could seem, so far away. God I know you care. How about a little in the feelings, in the perception, in my mundane reality?\par
"Blessed are those who do not see, and yet believe."  he heard himself saying.\par
Silence.  Outside even the crickets had given it up.  He looked up.  The pictures were gone.  He looked at every wall. No pictures.  It had been so real, so moving, so true.  The music was gone.  There was a deep, deep silence, a depth that ended so far down that it was beyond his perception, but he knew there was a power and a will there that held the universe together. Strange that he should think such things.  He was not prone to visions or hallucinations.  Perhaps he was still ill, or the stress of the interview was getting to him.  He breathed slowly in the silence, praying quietly. \par
The church door opened and there were footsteps.  Someone was entering the church. He really wanted to be alone just now.  Alone with his misery and the fact that God was silent and seemed to have abandoned him. He would get over it, someday. He fought some bitter feelings.  How could he argue that God had abandoned him?  Yet there was the hard cold fact of that interview, of there being absolutely no prospects.  This was the edge of the cliff. Past here he did not know what he would do.  This was the end of hope, and the only thing past here was an abyss of madness, hopelessness and despair.  Would he fall in? \par
The footsteps came closer .It did not sound like Aaron. He pretended not to hear them.  He became aware they had stopped at the end of the pew he was in. Someone was standing there. He turned and looked.\par
It was the  elder, the one with the longer hair and the shorter beard and the kind eyes, the one Mabel had waved to when he came in.  They were the kindest and gentlest eyes Deem had ever seen. He felt like he had known this man a long time, although he could not place him.  By bearing he was clearly an elder.  He could be nothing else. \par
"Mind if  I join you?"\par
Deem beckoned with his hand, not trusting his powers of speech, and turned to face forward. again.  The elder sat as if he had made a calculation as to how close he could sit to Deem that Deem would neither feel like his own personal space was being violated or that the elder was too far away.\par
Neither said anything.  But Deem could hear the elder breathing. It was a soothing, regular, sure thing, like it had begun before the foundation of the world and would go on afterward: confident, enduring.  An easy and a light breathing.  Nothing would every be too hard for it. Ever.  There was a strength in it.  The man would not leave and Deem did not really want him to. He found he was glad he was there.\par
It was an odd thing, this.  It was like this living, breathing, warm human being sitting within arm's reach, by his very presence, made all the thoughts of isolation and abandonment and the cold hard emptiness vanish, run away and hide.  There was meaning and purpose and a charity and a joy and a laughter behind the silence of the universe. It wa silent, he thought, because it was trying not to laugh.  Was he quoting Chesterton? Not sure. He had a hunger for God because God had made him hungry for God, because God intended to fulfill that hunger and not just frustrate him.  There was a purpose.  It was not chasing rainbows in search of a pot of gold at the end.  It was the rainbow as God's promise, and God was capable of fulfilling the promise, and would.  How dry he had been.  Now, not so dry. There was reason for hope, and so there was hope.  Whether he got this position or not, life would go on. God was still in control.  If he wanted Deem to have a suburban DC church, he would get one. Deem said to himself that God's plan was the best and such a church would just be rubbish if it was not what God wanted.  All things were behind him. Press on. \par
It was like he had had an enormous bundle tied to his back - his past - and he cut the ropes. It slid off into the past, or down into that abyss that had been open before him.  It tumbled down there, falling, growing smaller, away, away, away, down and down.  That was then. This was now.  There was a future, though he did not see it or know it.  He could go on.  He sat there, happier than he had been in a long time, for several minutes.\par
As they sat there, silent, Deem felt encouraged. He was not alone. He turned to say something to the elder about how he appreciated him being there.\par
He WAS alone.  How or when the man had left, Deem did not know. He must have either been concentrating or asleep.  Odd, that.  But he left behind a different way of looking at things, something that Deem could go on with. Now it was like he had long ago been at the end of a rope and had let go. Deem felt, oddly, like he had been caught. \par
Deem stayed some minutes, hoping the elder would return.  He did not.\par
He looked at the pictures looking at him. As he sat in the presence of God and this cloud of witnesses he felt himself hardening, rising to the challenge. Determination rose in him to do this, to not walk away defeated. How could he, after this?  He was no longer unable to win. He was only able to win. A strange thought, a strange feeling, a turning point. He knew things would be different.  Life had changed.  Not only "going on" but living.  He felt like he could breathe again, like joy was possible, like he could sing. Really, this little town and its church, its proud elders, were a speck of dust in God's sight, a drop in the bucket.  He, Deem Futz, was beloved of God.  God was in control. All things would work out.\par
Oh, the Deep Deep Love of Jesus.  Number 71 in the hymnal.  There was one in the pew-rack in front of him.  He opened it to Number 71, and a small piece of paper fell out and onto the floor.  It said "1 Sam 16:7 ".  He could not recall the verse, so he looked it up.  "What do you know," he said to himself, "What do you know."\par
Deem looked around the sanctuary one last time and left.  It was likely he would never return, but he would always remember this place.  And he was preaching Sunday, so he would be back.  To his surprise there was no lock on the front door.   \par

\pard\ltrpar\lang1033\par
\par
\ul Outside the Church\ulnone\par
 Deem interacts with a few people outside the church.  Aaron notices Deem \tab has a real ability to enter into someone else's emotional world and they feel it, \tab that he is on their side.  Unusually so.\par
\par
A man in a uniform that closely resembled Marine blues got out of a jeep and walked over to Deem. He handed him an envelope and waited while Deem opened it.\par
\par
In a beautifully clear script Deem read:\par
\par
" Pastoral Candidate Phutz, Mayor Southwark requests the pleasure of your presence in his office as soon as is reasonable today.  He would like to meet you.  Cordially, Administrative Assistant A. Tliel."\par
\par
"Tliel?" Deem asked.\par
"Pronounced Tuliel", the man in uniform said.\par
\par
"Amy Tliel, the mayor's administrative assistant and personal whore," Kitten said. Deem looked startled. The man in uniform said nothing.\par
\par
"I will be happy to come," Deem broke the silence.  \par
\par
Deem, Aaron and Kitten met the Mayor in his office.  Mayor Southwark was glad to meet him and hopes things will be smooth between the City and the new pastor, and they can work together on the identified biggest problems in town, such as homeless people drifting in from the trailer court and people not physically fit. Also people were violating the do not wash order on vehicles - here he looked at Kitten - and he wass sure there are other problems that the good pastor can address.  Kitten tells him to go to hell for no reason that Deem or Aaron can see. Where did Deem serve? The mayor was taken aback at the answer but recovered.  "I am sure you will be an improvement over Pastor Hartmann.  No cooperation out of that man." Kitten replied that Southwark had not deserved any cooperation.  The mayor had pressing duties, and it had been a pleasure, and they were shown the door.  \par
\par
"Baboon in Johnson's pay," muttered Kitten.  Deem looked at him curiously.  Aaron withheld comment, per protocol.  \par
\par
"Who is Johnson?" Deem asked.\par
\par
"He is that big swaggering banker up in Harrisonville.  He bankrolled the mayor's campaign and has bought a lot of prroperty around town.  He even bought Nicholls Bank."  Amy was watching this from her desk. "Tell you later," Kitten ended.  "If Johnson wasn't so stingy, he would get Southwark a higher grade than you," he told the girl.  She shrugged. \par
\par
"Listen, Deem, I need to make a phone call to the bishop.  I'll let you out here and you can explore the town.  I'm sorry, but that phone call must be private."  Deem understood, and understood what would be said.  "I'll pick you up in front of Butler's in an hour, okay?"  Deem nodded.\par
\par
Deem had a run in with Crazy Harry.  He met Nathan Bread in Butler's, who kept Crazy Harry from picking another fight.  Afterwards Deem wandered down to the courthouse square.  He looked at the Memorial to the War Dead, Classes of 1940-1945, reads the names, wonders who they were, what they would have been like if they had lived.  In another corner was a memorial to the Dead of the Great War, and then another for the Korean Conflict, and one for Viet Nam.  "James Pfingster" he read. Any relation to Kitten? The square was dominated by the Bank of Nicholls on one side, some law firms, a restaurant that looked a bit similar to Butler's - \i La Grenouille Engraiss\'e9e, \i0 but the awnings were finer and there was gold-looking trim.  Plus, the door framed a cross between a ma\'eetre d' and a special forces warrior - buzz cut, white towel over arm, white shirt and bow-tie, holster on his right hip and a sheath for a knife on the left, sheath sticking out of his highly polished right boot, huge muscles protruding from his rolled-up sleeves.  Law offices, a title office, a bail bond service, a barber shop and a few other offices completed the square around the limestone courthouse, two stories tall with  basement window peeking over the grass.  \par
\par
\ul Car ride to Pfingsters'\par
\ulnone Deem tells Aaron of the elder. Aaron wonders if Deem is losing it, on top of everything else.  Aaron cautions him that Kitten Pfingster wants a close look at him alone, and is the elder most opposed to Deem. Win him over, and he is in.  Otherwise, no.\par
\par
On the way to Pfingsters', where he would be staying - there were no hotels in Nicholls - \par
Deem tolf Aaron about the elder - one that Aaron did not see in the initial meeting, the one who later came into the sanctuary.  Aaron was concerned that Deem is hallucinating.  Aaron observes and hears about various people's reactions to Deem.  Aaron leaves with the bishop Sunday afternoon.  Deem moves from being a complete stranger to barely being tolerated. Not Marine material. Suffering is not central to the Christian walk, they tell him: victory over the enemy is. \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Aaron drove alone back to the bishop's residence.  "Deem really does have perseverance. I was not wrong about that." He thought about how he had arrived, half-starved and sick, three weeks earlier, and they had had to nurse Deem back to health. Somehow he had become best buddies with half the staff at the bishopiric, something that Aaron had missed until right now.  Deem had had every kind of illness and financial and legal trouble in seminary, including an arrest (it dragged on for two years, at the end of which Deem was cleared), suspension due to non-payment of tuition, academic suspension, both suspensions at the same time, a cursory investigation by the Committee on Doctrinal Purity, twenty interviews with churches and settlements that he got passed over on, and some had gone so badly the Placement Office had received angry letters about why Deem had been sent in the first place. But it was never character, always circumstances.  Deem had graduated the "goat" in his class - actually two classes later than normal due to his difficulties - and had had to repeat several courses.  He was no shining star. He had no spectacular gifts.  He was almost invisible in a crowd.\par
\par
Aaron recalled when he had met Deem at the bus station.  Aaron had stood there, looking for him with a sign, and he was startled when he heard his name mentioned. He looked around, and suddenly he realized Deem was standing right in front of him but he had not noticed he was there.  And this was going to be the leader the Marines here would follow?  And was he delusional on top of it?\par
\par
"God have mercy on him.  God have mercy on me in this situation.  God have mercy on the church in Nicholls." So he prayed all the way back to the bishopric, where he would make his report.  There would be none of the 'I told you so' he had thought he would be delivering.  So what would he say?  He gave that some thought and mixed it with prayer as he passed through Cass County back to the office in KC.\par
\par
 Deem was a 'man of sorrows and acquainted with grief'. How had Aaron not seen that?   Had God abandoned Deem? From what he had said, he regarded suffering as a gift, but it is, after all, suffering.  He was no masochist and did not regard God as a sadist. Life can be defined as how we respond to suffering - with an open, grateful heart or bitterness. He had chosen gratitude as the only response he saw open to the Christian.  Deem understood his significance was from God not man.  When that is all you have, you must see that.  God had stripped away everything non-essential from this man, including health, wealth, respect, leadership gifts, prominence, even height.  This Deem Futz was no shallow, fly-by night, health-and-wealth Christian.  He had gone into the depths and mysteries of God, and Aaron had missed that.  Likely the bishop had seen it.  In the depths of this man there was a deep connection with God that could be seen for those with eyes to see it.     \par
\par
Despite everything, Deem rejected the idea that God was hidden or silent, a sometimes flowing stream.  God is always there, always supporting, always trustworthy. Aaron was surprised that Deem was not an advocate of the Hidden God Who reveals Himself episodically, whether on Sinai, at the Jordan, Calvary, or the Second Coming. That was the official position of the denomination at present, that we wait for those great movements of God, outside of which God does not move, speak or act, although it was acceptable to veer off that position somewhat.  Deem maintained that God is always revealing Himself, for those who have eyes to see. For that reason he could not be a cessationist.  Aaron was surprised the CDP didn't go after him. Deem had replied that they didn't think he would go anywhere and he wasn't worth bothering with. He'd been told that, bluntly, by someone on the CDP. They had bigger, actual fish to fry.  He wasn't worth it. He'd shrugged.  He had consigned his life to God, and whatever happened, happened.  Aaron didn't think he had ever before seen such brokenness and surrender in anyone, and it was in an off-hand way.  You didn't notice it. Deem did not trumpet it or make sure you knew about it.  He would not tell you, would not bother telling you about it. You would have to listen and look for it, and like the man himself, you might overlook it. \par
\par
Who was this Deem Futz?  How could he lead a church full of gung ho Marines?\par
\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 3 Deem at Pfingsters\ulnone\b0 '\par
\par
Kitten, ramrod straight and angry, is barking at people to get off his lawn. He sourly looks at Aaron and more so at Deem after they pull in.  There is a small crowd that Kitten disperses because the show is over and it is too hot.  \par
\par
Deem barely makes it up the stairs to his room, which is a barracks-style two bunk room with an air conditioner in the window, decorated with a map of Pelileu and a medals display.  Deem will be down for supper, and Kitten shows him where he himself had landed on the map, and where he thought he was when they took him off the battlefield wounded - unconcious at the time - and he had found himself on a hospital ship.  Kitten tells of his service and how he had managed to shoot his mouth off and stay in combat after almost everyone else had been rotated off.  And then he had gone to China.  Didn't do much between the end of that and Korea.  Kitten is not living in the present.  He is old and his friends are all dead.  His son is buried in Nicholls Cemetary, killed in Nam many years ago now.  He has other sons, all Marine vets. Fine men. Good eggs.  He is fond of saying someone is a good egg.  He's never written a book, unlike that Sledge or that Leckie fellow, although he'd read part of both but could not finish.  Too many memories. \par
\par
Deem accidentally drops a water glass from the bannister at the top of the stair down onto the floor below.  Kitten, sitting in the dining area, hits the deck.  He is furious. There is water and glass everywhere.  He thinks Deem did it on purpose.  \par
\par
Conversation with Dennis Opp on Thursday morning.  Thursday afternoon Deem wandered the town.  Exhausted, he takes the wrong turn and finds himself lost on a country road.  He falls asleep and is arrested by a Deputy.  He is freed by Kitten and Aaron.  He then received a phone call from the bishop, who seemed to know all his movements.  The other two candidates are no longer interested.  Deem was now the sole candidate.  The bishop was going to inform the Session next, but Deem was asked to keep it quiet.  He did.  \par
\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 4 Deem Comes to the Ranch\par
\ulnone\b0\par
\lang9 Deem met a.k.a. "Baptist Bob" Stockwood, who moved to Nicholls from the Ranch to start a Baptist church that never happened. because Pastor Smit had been very effective at collecting all the Protestants into the Epper church, but now there might be a chance.  To support himself, he started a car wash, was successful, and held classes for people. It is derisively referred to as "Brother Bob's Baptist Seminary and Car Wash."  He attended church elsewhere.  Deem, to his own surprise, overcame suspicions and befriended him (to some criticism from clannish Eppers), although Bob never joined the Eppers. Just a Christian brother, a friend outside the congregation, and Deem appreciated that.  Neither is out to convert the other.  Friendship without agenda. \cf3\lang1033 Is this worth being here? Why?  If I am asking, does that tell me the answer?  Amusing, but worth while?? Yes: illustrates that non-Epper Christians exist in Nicholls and are fellow travellers with Deem and company. Imparts some realism.  Also explains, maybe, to some extent, why there are no other Protestant churches in Nicholls - Pastor Smit's legacy is still strong.\cf0   \cf1 Spelling of Smit/Schmidt/ etc is inconsistent. Choose one.  \cf0 Baptist Bob was also considering a tempting offer from Johnson Bank to allow "professional management" to run the car wash: Bob would get the profits, and, of course, pay a fee for management and all maintenance costs.  After thinking it over and talking it over with his own pastor, he had just decided to decline, but he thought there may be repercussions in the community.  There were no outright threats, just a feeling that declining the offer was not something that would please some powerful people. \ul\b\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\ulnone\b0  Sandy Sands: \cf1\i  \cf2 Why is Sandy here? Is Kitten here, too? No. That would be added complexity.  I don't think Kitten is all that interested.  Aaron, however, should be here.  Sandy has been handling communications between the Ranch and the church in town, a role he reluctantly took.  He'd been on the Council of 12 and departed during Peter Muis' time.  \i0\par
\cf0  Gary Sands: \cf1\i receptive Ranch      \cf2 needed: this is Deem's introduction to the Ranch, he sees Ellen for the first time, but it should be combined with Gary Sands.  Gary is Sandy's son.  He grew up on the Ranch and stayed when his parents left. \i0\par

\pard\ltrpar\cf0\par
\par
viewpoint of Elder Kitten Pfingster  - no. \par
\par
\lang9 Kitten may be more of a caricature than I would like.    \cf2\f2\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\cf0\f0\lang1033\par
\par
Hollow-eyed stares at times.  'I lived through it and now I have to live with it.' 'Wth what?' 'Terror. For me the war will never be over.'  'Are you still angry with the Japanese?" "No. I worked through that. I hated them - we all did - but I think I am over that now.  But don't ask me to eat at a Japanese restaurant.'  Still was having nightmares.\par
\par
That night Kitten had a nightmare, wherein he was told to return to the front lines on Okinawa after being in reserve.  He woke up in a cold sweat, screaming.  Deem prayed for him, and he is surprised when he gets a sound night of sleep Thursday night.  Then Friday, and onward.  No one had prayed for him before, and he wondered why not, he told his wife. Her response was that she had been praying for him ever since he got back from the Pacific, and this was about the first time he had been able to sleep all night for two nights in a row.   Has buddies wounded, some in the Vet Home in Nicholls.  He takes Deem there. \par
\par
Kitten continually watched for snipers and will not go down certain streets in Nicholls with large trees.  He scanned rooflines habitually and has enormous situational awareness.  He is still stuck in World War 2.  He cannot abide fire works and sudden loud noises make him hit the deck.  He is a combat vet of Guadalcanal, Cape Gloucester, Pelielieu and the occupation of Manchuria - as well as Inchon and Pusan.  He also sees things, whether hallucinations or realities, and remembers false things.  Sargeant Colson, for example, was killed on Cape Gloucester, but Kitten sees him around town.  A Marine named Charles had died in 2014 but Kitten was insisting lately that he had died on Guadalcanal and they had gotten the date wrong. He also sees Marines guarding the church and Marine sentries around his house.  Sometimes he checks on them. He smells a Japanese position to the southwest and often wonders when the brass will order it taken out. \par
\par
scene one: arrivall.  Kitten expected Deem to complain and whine. Before Deem said anything, Kitten said, "Cut the crap. We are interested in what you can do for us, not what happened to you." Deem thanked him for getting to the point  Kitten thought about it and says he realized Deem has not been complaining.  But he should be, says Kitten. Maybe. In any case he, Kitten Pfingster, was out of line. "I apologize," he told Deem, who shrugged it off.\par
\par
In evaluating Deem Kitten, then said he had to choose between Marine Corps gut-feel of what a good leader is, and the truth.  He had never had to do this before. He had lived by the fourteen traits. Kitten reeled them off.  Deem did not appear to be what he really was, Kitten admitted, which was why Kitten had just not straight-out rejected him.  Fair is fair and Kitten sought justice here.\par
\par
Deem did not seem to be able to say anything right in Kitten's eyes.  But Kitten kept backing off from that when he realized he was being unfair to Deem.\par
\par
Kitten showed Deem a map of Pelileu on the wall of his room. It showed the landing beaches and in red, hand-drawn, was a line that Kitten told him is the best guess as to his own movements.  There was a display case of medals and ribbons. "Yours?""No, my son's," Kitten said.  "The one we buried." \par
\par
There were also the fourteen USMC Leadership Traits on a poster, with Scripture references beneath each one and an expository paragraph.  Kitten watched Deem read through them. "That's what I'm talking about." Deem nodded. \par
\par
\par
In the middle of the night Kitten woke to use the head. He saw the light was on in Deem's room. He tiptoed in and saw Deem asleep at his desk and the sermon notes. He read enough Greek to realize there was a problem: this was hardly a promising start to a sermon.  He had noted Deem's procrastination silently at other points.  He could not hold Deem to Marine standards.  But he had to find a standard by which passing or failure would be valid. Somehow Deem had to merit it.  He couldn't just walk in and be given a pastorate, could he?\par
\par
\par
In the early morning Deem carried the empty water glass he had taken to his room and put it on the bannister while he tucked his shirt in. The glass fell, shattering onto the floor twenty feet below.  Downstairs he found Kitten hit the deck automatically. Getting up furious and red-faced  Kitten was initially suspicious that Deem had done it deliberately, but decided it was an accident. Deem insisted on cleaning it up and Kitten's wife, Marigold, silently handed him a broom and dust pan. Kitten was unhappy about the new dent in the wood floor. "A touch with the iron and it will be gone," she said soothingly,"worse things happen in love and war." "Yes, they do," Kitten replied. "It won't happen again, will it?" Deem said it would not.\par
\par
"We don't have fireworks around here, and we avoid loud, sudden noises," Marigold tells Deem. Kitten looks out of a Higgins boat at a tropical shore ahead, that shore revealing shattered palm trees between the explosions from sixteen inch shells.  Then he is back.\par
\par
At breakfast  Kitten asked him "simple" questions before his fellow elder Dennis Opp arrived to grill him. Kitten stated again that he was determined to see this thing through, 'this' being a demonstration that Deem was the wrong candidate. He also wanted to be fair to everyone. The facts seemed to be lining up against Deem, to be blunt. Did Deem believe the Apostles' Creed and the 66 books of the Bible? Yes. What about the five Solas? Yes.  Was he an Arminian or a Calvinist? Neither - he was an Epper. It's a both-and and a neither.  Did he pray the Lord's prayer? Did he believe in church discipline? Yes he did. Kitten got on him about being single, but in the end Kitten was satisfied. There was more here than he had expected. \par
\par
Kitten tells him if he goes to the Ranch to stay out of Snake Woods. \lang9 Kitten tells of 1947 attempt on Snake Woods with a flamethrower and Marine vets - they withdrew. They would have needed more flame throwers - they only had one, and they could only have it for a short time.  Many painful, nasty, later infected bug bites and the snakes kept coming. They had to walk on bones, some human, when they got into the woods - the flames attracted the bugs and the snakes.   There was the rotting smell of burnt and decaying flesh - it reminded Kitten of Okinawa - they came to the edge of a cliff and looked down into a ravine that seemed to be full of snakes and those flies over it. There was no way down from where they were and they had to flame a path out of there because otherwise they would have been surrounded by snakes.  No one got bit by a snake, but no one wanted to go back, either. And several got sick from the bug bites. There was also a crazy man who tried to interfere with them - it seemed like he was possessed, or something: warning them to stay out.  They were afraid he would get hurt. He was there when they came and after they left. No idea who he was. The flies seemed to breed and hover over the shallow, slimy waters just east of Snake Woods. There were biiting gnats as well as horseflies. But both were very aggressive. \lang1033\par
\par
\par
scene five: Aaron and Dennis show up. \par
scene six: Aaron and Kitten have a short sharp discussion about Deem. In the end, firiend, it is grace, not merit, that determines what we do in the kingdom of God., Aaron continues, telling them they would be a lot better off finding reasons to allow Deem to do what God called him to do instead of reasons to stop him.  Aaron has a look on his face that indicates he just discovered he is backing Deem 100%. The Church is not the Marine Corps.  That should not be a radical concept but seems to be. \par
\par
from then through Friday early morning, when they were mostly together., Kitten came to realize there was more here than he had thought.  He came to realize there was real determination underneath, that here was treasure in this earthen vessel, and he stayed in Deem's corner after having despised him. We all do what we do by grace, not merit, outside of the Corps.  Nicholls and the world needed to hear that message. \par
\par
Thursday Kitten learned from the clerk of Session that of the other two candidates, one decided, under the bishop's guidance, that he did not fit Nicholls. The other accepted a position elsewhere. Without a pastor the church will fold, Kitten thought, and so he had to find some way to accept Deem.   \par
\par
Deem suggested there are those who trust in the USMC or in being an Epper, above trusting in Christ. Trusting in anything except Christ is trusting in a falsehood. He also wonders if the church is in the shape it is in because they seem to have such enormously high standards - as in being a USMC vet - for entrance.  The church is not the VFW hall.  While there must be standards for membership, anyone - anyone - should be welcome, welcomed, and encouraged to join.  And membership does not mean perfection.  Kitten says it is more the particular strain of Nicholls culture here - it seems to have fossilized.  He does not realize he himself is a prime example. Or maybe he does.  But those who return to Nicholls and embrace Marine culture are few - they are a little over the top and peculiar. \par
\par
Kitten was the most opposed to Deem but winds up backing him even when he would otherwise balk. \par
\par
The Bank of Nicholls is the one holding the note on the big Epper church in town. The local bankers regret the order to close it, but it came "from out of town." Kitten sometimes wonders if someone out there has something against Nicholls. Few people have loans or mortgages and most if not all transactions in Nicholls are cash. No one really trusts the bank any more. \par
\par
Kitten asked Deem that night what he did in fighting the fire, as they had been split up.\par
\par
Nicholls resident Jim Smithston, never in the Marines and not native, lived mostly apart from the Marine community. He was a member in the Nicholls Epper church, one of the few remaining, but not an elder, either. In the church he was also somewhat isolated and concerned about the state of the church. Deem ate lunch with Kitten and him at Kikker Industries cafeteria (free to workers and guests, in the Epper tradition). He was a Jeremiah type who has been warning people at the church, in particular the elders, about the state of the church.  He was opposed to Hartmann but has gotten no thanks for being proven right, labeled a trouble maker.  He stood in opposition with a brass determination and an actual burden from the Lord.  It is odd that he prayed with "those women" for the church.  He worked as a mathematical modeler at Kikker Industries: the math models were used to build both molds and actual ceramic objects, and staged objects. These were then turned over to structural engineers who analyzed the stresses before the items were made. Tall and thin, he played basketball with some of the Mexicans in town and wais fluent in Spanish as far as playing basketball is concerned.\ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 Kitten conceded Deem was remarkably grateful, persevering, unassuming, quiet and unassertive unless he has to be assertive. For Kitten, Deem Futz wins acceptance as pastor.He actually would be a model Marine, something the elders sense but cannot articulate. Better yet, a model Christian.   He "has arrived", it is just no one seems to realize it. most of all him, in the inner man.  The discrepency between what Deem really was and what he appears to be was notable. He told Deem he believed in him now and he would not give up on him, even if he gave up on himself. Looking at Deem's arms, he asked,"Do you work out?" Deem found himself working out, and even taking self-defense at Main Street Mixed Martial Arts, where "The Beast" Mueller (no relationship to the Muellers of Ranch frame), former officer in charge of martial arts first at Parris Island and then at Quantico, finally at the Infantry School, ran his shop. "The Beast" took it upon himself to train Deem from nowhere to some semblance of his idea of a warrior in physique.  He is a devout Catholic.  Hearing of trouble, he and his assistant trainers decided to provide Deem with 24 hour protection.  \par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 4 Unexpected Direction\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 First Sunday.\par
\par
Deem had to go to Lee's Summit to get a suit, as his was not back from the cleaners.  "Don't ask me," said the clerk,"everything here is now run out of Harrisonville. We got bought out and they make the decisions up there.  I don't know where your suit is at."\par
\par
\par
No one told Deem he was supposed to teach the Sunday school class until he was in the room, and there was silence, and people looked at him with an expectant look and someone coughed politely.  Among other things, Deem again dunked the end of his tie in his coffee as he was teaching the class.  They said nothing.  \par
\par
\par
Aaron, the bishop and his wife, and two officials from the presbytery were in the last row. The church was crowded and overflowing because people were curious about the pastoral candidate and wanted to check him out.  The week before there had been around twenty people, mostly elders and their wives.  \par
\par
Worship was awful, badly led by a grim-faced elderly lady on the piano and the lady who thought she was in charge of everything soloed badly.  They did three military-oriented hymns.  An elder made announcements, led a prayer, welcomed the distinguished guests, including the bishop and two presbyters, and introduced Deem at the end of the offeratory without warning.  \par
\par
Deem unfolded his sermon notes and discovered the sermon that he thought was complete was just a mass of scribbles.  But instead of delivering a very poor sermon, he preached a good off-the-cuff one.  \par
\par
Deem managed to put his foot in his mouth by thinking the two officials, one a man and one a woman, are married, as he is not used to women serving at that level.  She brushed it off but it came across as hideously awkward.  He also said the wrong thing to the bishop's wife, whom he had never met before.  This was in front of many witnesses. \par
\par
Deem witnessed a man rising from the dead during the Nicholls Sunday service, held then at the funeral parlor.  Afterwards, the denomination sent him an amenuensis when they find he is without one - a retired pastor.  Later Deem discovered the man was also reporting to the CDP, who regarded a resurrection in the Sunday service as out of order and wanted to know if such carryings-on are happening to the point they needed to take action against Deem.  The man, exposed, leaves. \par
\par
\par
--------\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
viewpoint of Elder Sandy Sands \cf3 -  is this still valid?\par
\par
some of this needs to be moved\cf0\par
\par
With concern Sandy looked at their only candidate from Saturday morning coffee then after church and Monday morning's meeting.  Really? He is trying to fit together what he considers the bishop's usual good judgement with what he sees before him. He wants to be loyal to the bishop, to the Epper church, to God, to himself, and it is not fitting. He is working hard to see any good in Deem. In his eyes Deem does nothing to encourage him.  Deem really does not care about what anyone thinks of him.  That, finally, gets through and Sandy sees it.  But he is a no vote on Monday morning.    \par
\par
\cf3 I'm thinking of ending his part after his lunch with his wife. \cf0 The meeting Monday can be seen in restrospect.  Deem's position is extremely insecure but he acts anyway.  It seems like Sandy is 'done' on Sunday and someone else should take up the tale.  \par
\par
In line at the grocery store, Deem sees a man in front of him attempt to apply for a job. He is rejected out of hand because he lives in the trailer court.  Deem follows him and tells him he needs to move and he, Deem, will find him housing.  Deem shows up at Pfingsters', who have plenty of room and there is the ancient 'hospitality not hostility' in Epper culture.  Kitten takes them in.  This shocks the church.  \ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
\par
At the end of the second sermon Deem wept over the state of the church openly and unashamedly, in front of this tough Marine crowd.  People are spiritually dead, deflected, chasing other things, uninterested in Christ, without passion for what He is passionate about: they should be weeping, crying out for their sins instead of sitting there judging him as a weaking.  Are they Christians or Pharisees? He says calamities are coming on Nicholls, on the Ranch, on the whole area.  It is wholly, absolutely inappropriate for anyone to seem to have a nervous breakdown here, let alone the pastor during a sermon.  This is absolutely terrible.  But some listen and nod and cry. But many, including all the elders, are angry.  The best he gets from them is that he should have shown some tact if he was going to say such things and wait until he knew them and he had won their respect, have known the town better, and certainly not show himself to be a crybaby. A gentle loving rebuke would have gone farther from someone they respected. But not this.\par
\par
They sit down with Deem and go over the 14 Marine leadership traits, which they start off thinking he sorely lacks.  They have to admit at the end of the discussion he has them, just not in the way they are used to seeing them.  "Sometimes we need to open our eyes," Deem says,"and certainly I am not perfect in any of them. Are you?" Silence.\par
\par
The town is woken by an early morning fire at the Pohle home.  The fire completely consumes the house and is later determined to be arson. The bodies of Mrs. Pohle, her daughter and son Sy are found in the ashes.  There are indications they had been bound and tortured. The mayor tells the arson investigator not to pursue the case. The detective had said she had been an employee of the Nicholls Bank until she had been fired three weeks ago,  and she was going to meet him to tell him something important. "I'm sure it was nothing," the mayor says. Sandy looks at the detective and the arson investigator, who both have blank looks.  "She's Catholic," the mayor says,"So you Eppers won't be doing the funeral. Do you need anything else, Sandy? I think we are done here."\par
\par
In response to Deem's sermon townspeople decide to take over the trailer court, Marine style. On Tuesday morning before dawn armed Marine vets in full gear took the trailer court without firing a shot.  They find women being trafficked, stolen cars,  a chop shop, a large quantity of drugs, a meth lab, and over fifty men and women with outstanding arrest warrants, including several prison escapees.   \par
\par
No one told Deem.  But people thought it was the best thing that had happened in a long time As it seemed to be Deem's idea, or at least he got the credit (or blame) and it was a success, it established Deem as a leader in the communiity.\par
\par
\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 5 Return to Snake Woods\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\ulnone\b0  Ellen Bread: \cf1\i now jongdamme\cf0  \cf2  \cf0\par
\i0  Seth Kuyper: \cf1\i enemy down  \cf2\i0  \i   Ellen being a jongedamme is here incidental, only a setup for later action.  Isaiah is trailed in the open land by Crazy Harry.  He loses him by going into Snake Woods and crosses the unstable perimeter of the sinkhole, but Harry, less nimble and heavier, slides in.  \cf0\par
\i0\par
\cf2 whatever happened to the gifts of the Spirit discussion? I don't see that in parts 2 or 3, and is only a side issue in part 1.  The Gifts are present and in use at the Ranch in a limited way: many have become wary of having seen or heard of misuse in the past, including some who never really accepted them but passively tolerated them.  There is an underlying prayer movement that rarely gets alluded to but is there.  \cf0\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0  Gary filled Deem in on the situation regarding the elders. The Council of Twelve were ten, including  Cassell, Yaddock, Meyer , Hook, and Berg (now elderly and mainly confined to his house).  This is not John Cassell but another, Paul Cassell. There are 10, with Sands having left and Paul de le Grande being deceased, but they do not feel they can select someone to fill the two positions. Deacons include Pol, Voort, Kalua,  Smirnoff and Wu.  The Council of Twelve is unwilling to promote anyone or, for that matter, allow any deacon to resign.  Kalua is presently not serving as a deacon. Marshall is serving as one but is not called a deacon, because that would require a formal act, which they are reluctant to do. \par
\par
They explained to Deem that: in 2016 The Council of 12 resolves problems that weren't be solved inside a settlement, or between settlements, and provides overall guidance.  They function more as a Supreme Court, but an admiinistrator is the Executive. They use Paul L's 'self-organizing principle' : only impose organization when it doesn't happen naturally, or happens unhealthily.  So they may encourage healthy things and prune, but they leave the planting and watering to others.   They use negotiation and persuasion, may require restitution, and there is the threat of exile.  No jail, no trial by jury, no laws on the books.  Each settlement has its own code, which is the Basic Ten, and deals with violations as they see fit.\par
\par
The Council of 12 performis the work of the session, administering sacraments, preaching, in charge of religious instruction and worship.  They have assumed all pastoral duties, which they would prefer to have in the hands of a pastor, for whom they are waiting. It is not clear how or if the congregation(s) would vote on a pastor. Typically the elders get the mind of a settlement regarding a candidate and understand what they want, but here there are many settlements and they do not know everyone.  Given a candidate, perhaps each settlement should be polled.  Until Deem getting a pastor had been remote, as they had been occupied with other issues than this one.\par
\par
--\par
\par
Deem was shown Melanos, as he has an interest in cattle. Kitten and Gary were there.  To their shock, without a word Deem leaped over the fence and approached Melanos, arms out in front of him, making clicking noises.  Melanos trotted over and stood, then skipped in front of Deem and lowered his head, wagging his horns playfully. Deem scratched his neck as Melanos sniffed his feet. Kitten was about to say something, but Gary told him to not disturb Melanos - this was a very dangerous situation.  Other people passing by stopped and stared.  Deem gave the enormous bull a rub-down and they quickly became old friends.  Deem scratched his stomach as he lay on his side, and then walked carelessly back to the fence.  Melanos followed like a happy puppy and Deem gave him a carrot. "I will be back," Deem said. Melanos bellowed as Deem left.\par
\par
"You must have cattle where you are from," Sandy said.  Kitten's eyes were as big as saucers. "Yes. And we handle them every day.  We do not isolate them like this. You should get him a big inflatable ball and let him push it around, and play fetch with it."\par
\par
"You have got to be kidding me."\par
\par
"Get one.  Next time I am out here I will show you."\par
\par
"I don't think anyone else wants to get close to him.  I don't think anyone else wants to."\par
\par
"That's your loss - and his."\par
\par
"I never-" was all Kitten managed to say.  He had a new appreciation for Deem.\par
---\par
Deem met with one settlement, at their request.  Or, anyway, with all the men. The women were upstairs with the children, where they could hear but be quiet. It was a settlement of around 200, with twenty adult men and he also saw six teenage boys. They were curious about each other.  No one in the settlement spoke English, so the discussion was in Koine. Some settlements had mixed services. What did the pastor think of that? Deem learned that they meant not only were the women in the service, but often sitting side by side. No, he did not intend to stop that practice.  What would his role be as pastor? They intended to continue their own services. Was that a problem? No. Would he preach there? Sometimes.  He was not intending to replace but increase. The tension visibly relaxed.  He was treated to strong bitter coffee and falafel, which was new to him.  One man took him aside and said he was having some marriage difficulties. Deem said he was willing to sit down with him and his wife, and the man explained that he wanted Deem's advice, and he would tell that to his wife. Deem said maybe that approach was the problem.  The man frowned and said he would think about bringing his wife.  When was Deem going to return? He didn't know. He might be better off discussing this with someone from his settlement or going to the Council of Twelve. \par
\par
\par
Gary guarded the old gate on Friday night with others, against some would-be invaders.\par
\par
Wells started getting water, what with the rain. \par
\par
Strange that the Pohle house had been torched in town, and there was a son named Sy. Sy - Isaiah.  Odd coincidence? Deem wondered who they were, whether she was saved, what she was planning to tell the detective. Why had they been killed and their house torched?  Gary said people say don't mess with Johnson Bank: bad things happen. Deem:"Are you really accusing them of murder?" Gary had no better idea. He thought the Bank would destroy the Ranch and the city of Nicholls if the Bank thought they were in their way. Old man Johnson had an evil reputation. \par
\par
Deem saw Ellen Bread flit by, which unexpectedly distracted him as he met Gary Sands and an elder at the Ranch. Aaron was there. \par
\par
Gary thought it would take a while to get used to Deem. Deem said he identified with Paul, one thing in person and another in his letters.  He does what he does by the grace of God (he gives himself no credit).   \par
\par
Gary told Deem that from chaos to extreme poverty (it took years for the Epper settlements here to become profitable, and that did not happen all at once, and some were still not self-sufficient), poor soil, lack of water from wells, poor quality well water (contaminants, bacteria), cattle disease, sickness, trespassers growing marijuana, internal dissent, hassles with state and federal regulatory agencies, an unusual number of mechanical breakdowns, coyotes, internal  dissension, heavy criticism of the Council of 12 as overauthoritative or not providing direction and resolving conflict, cultural differences between Epper communities, the Ranch has always faced an array of problems. Now they seemed to be under attack by a hostile outside power. Was the business about the coins just a pretext? It seemed there has always been someone wanting to push them out of wherever they have lived: the Epper persecution complex, but this time maybe there was something to it.\par
\par
Pearl Mirren showed Deem the neglected berry garden that Paul had built and asks Deem if she can restore it. He said he sees no reason why not.\par
\par
\par
Deem heard there were miracles at the Ranch.  That was a long time ago, semi-mythical,  and Gary has not heard of any for years. The joy of the Lord is our strength - odd that Deem talks about our walk with Christ being defined by suffering and His seeming absence. But it fits. It is not defined by miracles, when and if they happen in Gary's world.  \par
\par
The Pflumms finally moved out of a trailer and into a stone house.  Katy agreed to take the boxes of Agatha's stories - there are many, as her younger sister is trying to keep up, and those stories are there too.  They are stacked near Katy's office in the trailer.  \par
\par
During church someone enters the Warren and steals boxes from Katy's office.  But all they get are Agatha's stories.  "I hope they enjoy them," Papa said. \par
\par
After the incident at South Gate Friday night and at Butler's Saturday, the Ranch increased security. South Gate was to remain closed.  Aurochsen were returned to their normal area: there were questions about the strength of the temporary gates and the risk to the valuable aurochsen. \par
\par
Gary Sands, Sandy's son, met Deem. He stayed at the Ranch when his parents left.Peter Muis is gone, but what about those who desired to follow him into error, who benefited from it and were so willing to blind themselves to it for the sake of what - having a human leader in place of Christ? Don't colleges do the same sort of thing? They make it easier not to think, instead of teaching you to think?  Gary gets a lot out of time alone on the prairie where he can think. \par
 \par
Deem counseled Gary on a problem Gary asked him about but draws more strength from it than Gary does. Gary asked Deem and heard how Deem was called in to a 6AM elders meeting to receive a tenuous acceptance, as well as his more solid acceptance at the Ranch as liaison.  The second Sunday he is to preach both in town and at the Ranch, at the main service in the HQ settlement.  He plans to visit other settlements on future Sundays, those that are interested.  Not all are.\par
\par
April Bread was upset.  The berry garden was given to her mother by Paul de le Grande to take care of when he got too old to take care of it. This year April gave birth to twins and had no time for the garden.  Why does Pearl get custody without even talking to her? Deem said he had no idea. Obviously Pearl has spoken to April. But why should April have it if she has not been able to care for it, what with other duties and the drought? Can April take care of it or should she really let go of it?  She let  go of it, but Pearl, who had arrived, had trouble concealing her look of triumph.  Deem told her to be sure April gets a lot of berries next spring, like the whole crop for a year.  Pearl looked stunned but nodded. \par
\par
Gary related what Mike Smirnov has told him to Deem. Gary put some pieces together later, which he shared with Deem.  An Ethiopian cannot change his skin or a leopard his spots - Gary told Deem that Mike felt helplessly trapped in his position.  Only God's grace could change him but he was still responsible for his situation.  Mike felt trapped and helpless. Gary asked Mike if he had faith to believe God will change him.  Mike did not know. \par
 \par
The unauthorized visitor on Monday afternoon was arrested.   Strangers had to be chased off the property, most of whom leave without contact. Gary visited three settlements without electricity and modern communications to warn them.  Trespassers had been increasing in number.  They also were coming back.  This was a quandry, as Eppers are open to everyone who wants to come, but historically the settlements have been small and exiling someone meant they really went away.  Eppers also avoid having much that can be stolen.  In the past Eppers have dealt with unwelcome, violent visitors in a way that they will not come back.    These guys are returning, for unknown reasons, avoid Ranch people but are hostile when approached.  The Ranch does not and will not have a No Trespassing policy, so what to do? And what to do with them? The Ranch has no jail for someone who say sets fire to the place, instead uses restitution, but these people are not interested in that.  They are looking for news of the treasure, and for Isaiah Poller.  \par
\par
An unlearned, uneducated low-level sometime-ranchhand who goes by the sobriquet of 'Weed' still struggles with the Weed despite many years on the Ranch.  Weed makes an appearance, mistaken for a stranger.  He's been known to wander.\par
From when to when?\tab I would think one incident Friday evening, then Monday afternoon.  He, too, is looking for Isaiah.  He tells someone he's been told to, but 'dunno' when asked who told him to look.  He is somewhat stoned out of his mind. \par
\par
The incident of the woman who kills an intruder would fit in here. \par
\par
Kitten made an appearance "need to dig in - they will just keep coming and coming. We will kill them all if we have to."  Gary wondered if the old man is losing it.  Kitten thought  should have fox holes.  He seems to be elsewhere, fading in and out of World War 2. They have no artillery and no air support.  No malaria any way. Not a single case. They've seen worse. \par
\par
Gary had been involved in the People of Praise as a teenager, including what he now thought of as going too far, but is now over that. Prophecy, he opined to Deem, is staid.  Knowing Christ is an antidote to depression, to impatience, to shame.  He was ashamed of how he was taken in.  There are those who seek your soul, that they be allowed to dominate you or they will kiill you or otherwise dispose of you.  Those who came in the rain, the People of Praise, various politicians he has heard about are like that.  \par
\par
"We are not to despise prophecy, but it is not necessarily the same thing as preaching, either.  It seems to be highly inspired preaching, but not on a level with Scripture- when it can, it should be tested by Scripture."\par
\par
"That cannot always be done. For example, Agabus and the famine."\par
\par
"Yes.  There is a role for prophecy outside of the pulpit ministry, it would seem. If you will, even an office, and that beyond that of the Old Testament prophets.  I would venture to say New Testament prophets are subject to Scripture and submit to the church authority - while not necessarily being identical to it."\par
\par
"I thought Eppers were cessationists."\par
\par
"That is a misunderstanding.  The official teaching on prophets is that the office has not excluded. However, no one today is included in the office, because we are at a loss as to how to recognize someone in the office. To be there, one would have to have a record of tested prophecies, but you cannot have a record without having prophesied.  And it seems only prophets prophesy. So until there is a consensus as to how to recognize a prophet, that office will be empty, and anyone claiming it is disruptive and subject to censure. And there are the prophets in the book of Revelations, which I cannot see as having gone through licensure with the Eppers or some such to assume their offices. Likewise God heals, for that matter, sovereignly. "\par
\par
"I see."\par
\par
Deem and Ellen met right after a Q & A with the Ranch, told from Ellen's perspective. He shifts from not much of a man, as she had been told, to the man she would like to marry.  He is not willing to compromise truth for the sake of reconciliation, or for that matter, to stay an Epper.  He trusts they are the same and they should not trust in whatever traditions of men have sprung up on the Ranch, because those are less than God's best, whatever they are.  Deem takes the same light grip on the town church. He wants neither if they Deem is installed as pastor of the church in town and liaison to the Ranch. Deem only manages to do this by explaining he will not compromise his core values, and neither should they, but non-core items are certainly negotiable.  He lays out the 5 Solas as non-negotiable, but the Epper statements of faith as negotiable, which is breath-taking given the CDP could get him.  'Chrisit is our life, not human formulations. Anything short of Him is not the truth. Our formulations are meant to describe that truth, not to be ends in themselves.  Likewise Marine Corps values only have value as they are derived from the Scriptures and ultimately from Christ, as there is no truth independent of Him.  \par
\par
\par
\par
Deem explained to Ellen that he would like to marry, and that he would like to court her, but he cannot court someone in his congregation in good conscience.  She was not interested in marrying anyone, ever.  Not that he would be a bad match. But no.  \par
\par
The town church embodied The Warrior Code, the Ranch, Shout to the Lord.  How can these be reconciled? God is both Judge-Warrior and Lover-Redeemer. The only reconciliation we can see is on the cross, meaning the Marine culture and the charismatic culture can only be reconciled, truly, through Christ.  This is in a conversation between Deem and someone at the Ranch.\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf3 not sure this is central:\cf0\par
why would we have enemies, Isaiah wonders.  What makes some people bad? Didn't God create all men good?  Why would He create someone, knowing they will go to hell? He is told God makes some like Pharoah to oppose Him to demonstrate His glory. Tough on them, isn't it? How can God be good and do this? <All this in eight year old speech>.  He is sent off to talk to Pastor Futz.  God is good. We start there.  We all had a choice, but [reprise Reformed theology with an eight year old.  It turns out the Eppers are 5 point Calvinists - or rather, that is one acceptable position.  Arminianism is another 'model' that is acceptable.  Some things God has left as a mystery].\par
\par
But Gary decided that Deem would be a good pastor.  He has not had one in a long time, but the gift seems to be there. \par
. \par
\cf3  move the following\cf0\par
\cf2\ul\b Chapter 6. Tony: \ulnone\b0\i unexpected direction\par
\cf0\par
\i0 Deem, living at Pfingsters, gets a note from the Post Office saying there is a piece of mail at the Post Office that they think may be his.  He is to bring photo-id and two other forms of identification and proof that he lives there, and he can pick it up.  Kitten says things have been like this for years; the postmaster refuses to deliver mail and you have to go pick it up.  Deem has no proof he lives there.  Kitten goes with him to vouch for him and gives him an earful about how many people pick up their mail and mail it from Archie or Audrain, because the Nicholls Postmaster is determined to let no mail through if she can possibly help it.  Deem finds a long line and has to take a number and a seat in the waiting area. Finally his name is called. He explains calmly that he wants his mail, that her job is to deliver mail, and he hopes that this will never happen again. With narrowed eyes she wants to know, or what.  And Deem says he supposes he will be at her mercy.  God will give mercy as she has given mercy to others - what does she want to get?  She gives Deem his mail.  The next day, for the first time in years, everyone gets all their mail, including what had been on hold pending investigation at the Post Office.  Word gets around that Deem had talked to her and had solved a decades-old problem: people had screamed at her at length and gotten nowhere, but Deem had done it with a few quiet words.  His stock around town went up considerably.\i\par
\par
\i0 Deem helps out Tony from the trailer court.   God has not forgotten the poor: if you want a day of visitation, hang around the poor. God comes to the poor and needy not the wealthy and satisfied.  \par
\par
Deem challenges Kitten to take in Tony and family in the ancient Epper tradition of hospitaility.  To his surprise he does, and Kitten uses him around the house for lifting things and Marigold takes Anna as sort of a \i jongedamme\i0 , as her skills are low, but much more gently, more like a tender daughter. This shocks many in town, who look down on the trailer court trash. Tony gets a job now that he has a "decent" address. Marigold had been a \i jongedamme\i0  in the old days.  Anna hears about the \i jongedamme\i0  tradition: Marigold explains that it is only for single women as \i jongedammen\i0  and Anna is married, and the mentor is always a mother with young children. And no, the mentors never have beaten their jongedammen - viscious rumor. Probably somewhere someone did so once but she has never heard of it. But Marigold can teach her how to run a household.  She needs the help. \par
\par
Deem's second sermon was a reaming out of the congregation for the neglect of the trailer court and allowing it to fester.  They approved of a proper Epper sermon: but once again he burst  into unseemly and unmanly tears. Is this necessary and going to be a regular thing with this guy? He almost apologized, but they liked it, at least until he started crying. They were being stretched spiritually, so that was that.  \par
\par
Deem was alarmed: Nicholls as a town decided they should annex the trailer court by force if necessary.  Deem was not allowed to participate in its pacification. Without his knowledge they took over the trailer court before dawn, Marine style.  There was no shooting.  This was a turning point for Deem as he realized, and the congregation realized, they are backing him. \par
\par
Jim Smithston told Deem that he had heard through the grapevine that very powerful people were very unhappy about what happened at the trailer court. Bad things were going to happen. His Mexican friends would not say more than that.  \par
\par
Ellen conditionally allowed Deem him to court her, but with no promise at the end of it.  She emphasized it is a trial - she is not sure, after what she has gone through, that she wants to marry, or that she would be a good wife. April Bread is convinced she must somehow be related to Ellen, who absolutely does not want to talk about her past. \par
\i\par
\ul\b\i0\par
Chapter 7. Ellen Bread: \ulnone\b0\i now jongdamme \par
\par
\i0 Ellen Bread decided she needed to decide what her life is about .  She formally joined the Ranch (previously she had no commitment) and then the worship team, in a back-up role. She had been a successful Christian artist who crashed badly and is now putting things back together. Ellen accepts the position of \i jongedamme \i0 with the Pollers to get her head together. She also has no idea how to run a household, let alone cook. \ul\par
\par
\ulnone Ellen hears of Tony, and of the raid on the trailer court.\par
\par
Weed is smitten with Ellen but disgusts her. She struggles to 'love' him as a Christian while detesting everything about the old hippie.  She asks Deem if he would telli him to stop bothering her.  Deem does, and Weed leaves her alone.  He vanishes from Hair Bair, anyway.  The thought passes through her mind that there is something attractive about Deem. Maybe it is just because he is in authority, and he protected her this once. \par
\par
Ellen agrees to court Deem, and there is a transformation in how she sees Deem. Deem seems more secure in his office both at Ranch and in town. We see some of the previous discussions from her perspective. \par
\par
\cf3 write why someone would say this \cf0 The light you hoped for turns to bitter darkness if you do not give glory to the Lord (Jer 13:16). People move in one of the two directions.  Everyone wants light, but some get it because they give glory to God. Everyone else gets the valley of the shadow of death and gross darkness. The valley where the pit is remarked on as "what a dark place" and a "place of shadows" - partly the grey from the ash and the scorched walls.  Who makes this observation, and why is someone there in this chapter? Does that belong elsewhere? The false light is actually darkness, given in judgement by God. \par
\par
Despite all the difficulties and opposition in a time of trouble, it will be well with them.  What God has made them into will transcend any and all earthly troubles: the troubles will break on them like waves on rock.  Although the rock may be underwater, it will be there when the trouble is over. \par
\par
Deem handles a pastoral situation at the Ranch: a sterile man has his brother father his children for him, and ensuing complications.  How do these people feel? How do they live it out? How long ago was that? The man looks at these children and knows they are not his, has trouble with that. Is this worth being here? Why?  If I am asking, does that tell me the answer? This builds Deem's confidence in his role here. \par
\par
The old red south gate is rammed open and Poller's Warren is ransacked while everyone is at church.  They are looking for information about the gold.  They set the Warren on fire, whoever they are, and leave before they can be tracked down. What was not burned was scattered, ripped, turned upside down, etc.   They do not know if Katy's legal files were burned or taken.  But she is especially upset at their greenhouse, where all the plants were pulled out of their pots and thrown on the floor. Where was God when the Warren was pillaged and burned?  Sometimes he is more hidden than they would wish. but they seek Him even in this.\par
\par
 Scene of Pollers mourning their lost trailers and everything they owned on earth, with the broken down gates.  Katy is confounded: her children are safe, but it is like nighttime in the noontime, she is stunned, moving from grief to anger to feeling like God has abandoned her to exhaustion as they need to find living quarters for her family, including the jongedamme and her mother.  Oma takes it with faith, and Katy wishes she had that kind of faith. Why did they tear up the family pictures, especially ones that could not be replaced? There is a favorite picture of her father, mother and her siblings when she was a child that is torn and burnt.  "This world is not our home," Oma tells her, and there will be the living reality where we will all be together and there will be no need to pictures."  It is a hard thing for Katy to let go of. "But you must let go of the things of earth. We all must. The world only makes sense, that is, we can only find succor through the cross.  There is no other way than the way that God has provided. You know that, Katy." She nodded.  \par
\par
"You'll learn the Copenhagen fold. Some people say the Lindstadt fold is better, and then the Russians - what they do they say saves time," Katiy shuddered,"You will not learn that from me!"\par
\par
"Why are you so fussy about the sheets being folded so meticulously?"\par
\par
"First, I am not fussy. That was out of line. You should have said, 'why fold the sheets so carefully?' In the future let us have more respect for me.  It is attention to detail and it will carry over into everything you do.  A habit of mind. A character trait. Let us say, God forbid, you have six children sick, and the doctor prescribes different medications and intervals for each. This will teach you to pay attention to the smallest detail.  Or, for that matter, a complex legal situation."\par
\par
"Yes, ma'am."\par
\par
"I will not tolerate the slightest deviation, nor a wrinkle, nor a fold out of place.  The Copenhagen fold requires an exact square when finished one eighth of an inch thick in this material, cotton, and I will use a tape measure to check it but you will not. You will learn to fold it into an exact square within one-thirty-secondth of an inch."\par
\par
"Yes, ma'am."\par
\par
"Blindfolded."\par
\par
"Yes, ma'am."\par
\par
"In less than ten seconds."\par
\par
"Yes, ma'am."\par
\par
Katy shook out the sheet to its full spread and before Ellen could blink, there it was in a neat square.  "Measure it," she told Ellen.  Ellen pulled the tape from the pocket on her apron.  It was exact.\par
\par
"You will learn that. I will teach you."\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
 Others gather with them to support them.  They move into a new stone house. God is always good, Katie tells her son Isaiah, even when He cannot be seen. Somehow He is always working for good. Deem arrives in role of pastor, is deeply moved; he is effective in both consoling and seeing that they get a new roof over their heads, clothing, food, contributed by others.  "Thank you," Ellen tells Deem,"But I still give you no answer - I need to deal with what you see before you, as you know."\par
\par
\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 8  Seth Kuyper\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 viewpoint of Seth Kuyper \strike\par
\par
\strike0 Seth Kuyper was a friend of Isaiah's, an admirer even though slightly older.  He could not keep up with Isaiah.  No one can.  Seth watched all this.  Harry is not interested in Seth. Seth stayed back from the sinkhole.\par
\par
Security finally warned Mr. Poller that his son may be in danger.  He intended to ground Isaiah when he got home.  He wanted to talk to Isaiah himself, not have someone else do it, and would do so "after this iron is laid - almost done." It was thirty minutes back up to the Warren from where he was. They were building a concrete deck bridge with steel girders across a draw on the perimeter road, which would also be used by two settlements close to the southern limit of the Ranch.  Laying the girders took longer than expected, so he was late getting back.  He was the only one with the requisite experience.  They just didn't lay much iron. But Isaiah was not there. \par
\par
Isaiah Poller runs into some Nicholls kids who recognize him and want to know where the gold is.  He leads them to the sinkhole and points, saying they are welcome to it.   \par
\par
Harry and Eliot followed them. Harry attempts to capture Isaiah.  Isaiah cuts across the shifting soil of the outer area of the sinkhole, hoping Harry will not follow.  But he does.  Harry is the first to fall into the sinkhole while chasing Isaiah, who manages to escape.\par
\par
"I don't feel like I am who I used to be," Deem told Ellen,"It's like someone else is living my life through me, like I am standing aside and just watching.  I am not who I used to be."\par
\par
"Well, I think it is Jesus, and I like you the way you are," Ellen said. \par
\par
\par
------------------------------\par
   \par
\par
\ul\b PART THREE \ulnone\b0\par
\par
Part 3 concerns Deem's wider acceptance in Nicholls, among the Marine and non-Marine community and among the Catholics and "others" and bringing the three communities (Ranch, Nicholls, trailer park) into one. He breaks down the barriers - their identity is in Christ, not Ranch/town, not Epper/charismatic, not rich/poor.   Deem carries out everything he learned in Part 2 and before he got to Nicholls.\ul\b  \ulnone\b0\par
\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 1  Mayor Southwark \ulnone\b0\i\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\cf1 discovered resistance   \cf2  enemy is now open\cf0\i0\par
 Dennis Opp learns all of what Johnson has been planning.\cf1\i     \cf2  \cf1\par
\cf0\i0  Attack on Hair Bair \cf2\i  \cf0\i0 At the beginning, Ellen is lured out of the Ranch by her mother and is turned over to Eddie, who locks her in his bar's basement for collection by Johnson.\par
\cf2\i\par

\pard\ltrpar How does Deem learn where Ellen is? Why is he the hero here? \cf0\par
\par
\i0 viewpoint of Mayor. \i\par
\i0\par
People in Nicholls took sides, either with the Ranch or with the Boss.  It was an ugly, unresolvable standoff, until the Boss miscalculates and people realize he doesn't care who gets hurt.  The mayor is caught in the middle, thinking of the next election more than the present crisis.  Somehow Deem emerges as a leader in this resolution.\par
\tab\tab\i\par
\i0 Mayor Southwark is angry at the trouble Deem seems to be stirring up and calls him in for a reaming. But Deem is here to pastor, not play the game, not play politics. The mayor views a church as having social utility, but if it is a liability, why have it?\par
\par
There are people, the mayor tells him, who don't like what he is doing. If Deem does not know what is good for him, that is his lookout. The previous pastors were reasonable people who fit into the community and allowed peaceful prosperity. Quiet lives and all that.  Deem says he has to do what God says. He is sure the previous pastors were men of integrity who could not be bought. The mayor attempts to pull Romans 13 on him but Deem responds with he must follow God not man. \par
\par
People could have been hurt in the takeover of the trailer court.  That was foolish and dangerous and bravado.  Mayor Southwark is glad no one got hurt.  But people were hurt financially. Certain people are furious because the trailer point had been a source of profit and Deem has ruined it.  Mayor Southwark admits some of the activities were questionable if not downright illegal, but he takes life as it is,not as he wishes, and other people do so ever more than he does, and Deem has messed things up around here in a big way, and he needs to fix it.  Smooth feathers, calm people down.  There are people at Johnson Bank in Harrisonville who are heavily -- heavily - invested in Nicholls and he urges Deem to go visit any of the Vice Presidents and have a good conversation with them. Deem would learn a few things to his benefit.  Seminary can be idealistic and if he really wants to serve the community they can help him see where he could do the most good, instead of what he has been doing.  Johnson Bank has always been interested in the prosperity of the City of Nicholls and has generously donated to his campaigns for mayor.  \par
\par
He shifts tactics. Mayor Southwark encourages Deem to have the Ranch allow Johson Bank to send a treasure hunting team to the Ranch, but even better, if he could talk to the Pollers and have them tell him or meet people up in Harrisonville for a discussion about it.  The Mayor hints that he is afraid that "outside forces" may provide some encouragement until    they give up the gold and the diamond.  They would at least like the Poller boy and his parents to come in and talk.  Deem has no idea and has never heard that anyone knows anything about a diamond.   He has only heard rumors about the gold.  The mayor tells him about the gold coins.  Deem explains that his purpose at the Ranch is pastoral and has nothing to do with gold.  The mayor says if he is concerned about their welfare out there, he should find out about the gold and report back to him as soon as possible. Things could go much smoother for everyone if the Ranch would sell Kikker Industries.  He has heard there is an interested party.  Ranch people are sadly uninterested in their own welfare, it would seem.  The mayor has to consider everyone's good, and things could go badly for everyone in Nicholls County if they do not sell Kikker Industries.  He is sure Deem understands and is a reasonable person. Perhaps he just needs some time to think it over and realize how reasonable this is. The Mayor is trembling. Mayor Soutwark finally throws him out.    "I will hand it to you. You are made of iron, my man."  "I am not your man," Deem replied, "But thank you."   \par
\par
On exiting Deem sees Weed sitting, waiting for the mayor.  He realizes Weed is an informant - the mayor is angry that Weed came earlier than he should have.  "Futz don't know you're paying me for news," Weed says while Deem is still in hearing. \par
\par
\par
Eliot, who chased Isaiah and Seth and saw Harry die, shows up at Dennis Opp's house.  Dennis is suspicious but agrees to talk to him.  Eliot heard the voice that Seth heard and felt what he could only describe as horror in that ravine, like something evil, out of a horror movie was there.  He's scared and needs to talk, had seen Dennis as his judge on a case where he had been merciful to Eliot, has no one else to turn to.  He is on the run.  Johnson has all his money and Eliot is afraid he will take vengeance for not returning with the treasure or Isaiah at least. Dennis hears Eliot out: the prairie fire had been deliberately set to burn down Snake Woods, on Johnson's orders. Any collateral damage to the Ranch would be find with Johnson. \par
\par
Dennis wonders Johnson is attempting to touch the apple of God's eye in setting himself against the Ranch. Dennis tells Eliot he is also in trouble with God.  Eliot knows it.  He just knows it. So nervous he is sweating. \par
\par
Eliot has nowhere to turn.  Dennis leads him to Christ. Now the pig is friendly - pig had been suspicious of him before, but now he is relaxed.  Eliot notices and Dennis tells him that Attila  is a very spiritual pig.    With a shave and a haircut and new clothes - he had had the long beard, long hair and fatigues look - he looks completely different. He must now learn the ways of the Lord, not the ways of the world.  As he had trusted and obeyed Johnson, so he must now trust and obey God.  God has grace and love, Johnson had neither.\par
\par
Nonetheless Dennis is not completely convinced that this is real.  He does not put it past Johnson to put a spy in his house.  But there is no proof and it is not yet time to see if this is wheat or weed, so he decides to wait until it is clear.\par
\par
 (A funeral and a wedding).  Note that the Pollers are no longer in the burned out Warren.\par
 \par
Despite everything, the Nicholls Epper Church closes.  Deem weeps. Eppers founded their church in the 1870s - they had attempted a colony on land somewhere northeast of Nicholls, but the land could not sustain their settlement: there had been a church here for 150 years.   \par

\pard\ltrpar\li1440\par

\pard\ltrpar Deem discovers his amensuensis will be arriving from the denominational headquarters.   Most people attend out at the Ranch, which isn't all that far anyway.  Arson takes out both the little clapboard church and the bigger Epper church, which once again is empty.  \par
\par
Deem rescues Skittles. church at the funeral parlor. \par
\par
the resurrection at the funeral parlor: John Bread. \par
\par
As a result of that untoward and questionable event, the resurrection of John Bread, during a sermon, the denomination sends out someone to be Deem's amensuensis (Matt Kracht). Deem is not told he is being investigated. \par
\par
Flat tires in the middle of the night.  Broken windows in town.  Intruders when elders are gone. Deem's apartment is ransacked by someone looking for something.  \par
\par
\par
  Ranch and Nicholls grow to accept each other : enemy: the Boss.  Deem is respected both at the Ranch and in town, among the Marines.  \par
\par
April Bread, who thinks of Ellen as some sort of long-lost relative and thus a legitimate target for this sort of thing, gives Ellen a speech about how both she and Deem are losers and two unmarried losers, if they marry, are in a loser marriage, and she is too unstable and he is a pastor and so she is not worthy to marry him, and he should not court from here. He should have been married already.  Simple fact.  She is furious.  The 'holy corrector' backs off and apologize. Deem may not have been courting her before, but he is now. This speech has the opposite effect of intent.\par
\par
Ranch and Nicholls come together against the greater threat of the Boss and his attempted destruction of both Nicholls and the Ranch. \par
\par
 \ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
 It seems Johnson is furious that the town cleared out the trailer court.  He vows to get rid of Deem.  Maybe he can exploit his girlfriend. \par
\par
-------------\par
Mrs. Crawford made her way along the sidewalk on South Maple.  There was another prayer meeting at the Epper church, and she did not really care that the distance was further.  It was harder in a walker, but she would do it.  They had taken away her driver's license and her only wheels were the ones on the wheelchair she now needed sometimes at home, when standing was too wearying.  \par
\par
At least the weather was nice.  It was quiet and there was no traffic along the tree-lined street.  Ahead of her she heard a van coming up, coming up too fast.  She noted the tinted windows and the lack of a license plate. No one in Nicholls owned a van. Well, the plumber did, come to think of it, but he had his name and stuff on the side. A few others, but this was none of them. She fumbled in her handbag.  She'd moved here under a different name, provided by the government, with a different backstory due to what she had done during the war.  She told people she had worked in a B-29 plant.  What she had done she could never talk about.  But maybe they, whoever they were, had found her at last.\par
\par
Down the next block the van did a U-turn and came back.  She kept walking in her slow way as it slowed down just opposite her. Yep. The side door popped open and a large man in a mask jumped out.  Her first shot hit him in the knee as he was jumping and he crumpled on the pavement with a groan as the second man landed on top of him. She shot him in the ankle, and they were both down.  Her third shot shattered the passenger window and glass went all over the driver, who was pulling away.  Her fourth shot took out the right rear tire.  It paid to visit the range once a week, she thought to herself.  With satisfaction she watched the van skid into a tree, and the driver stagger out.  He was also wearing a mask, and by now ten armed men had come out of their houses on South Maple.  The driver looked around as they approached and raised his hands in surrender.  He dropped to his knees and intertwined his fingers behind his head.\par
\par
"Don't shoot," he begged. He'd be dead by now if they had opened fire, she thought to herself.  \par
\par
Mrs. Crawford turned her attention to these two.  They were lying on each other and both were trying to get up. That was not helping them at all. \par
\par
"I own your buns, cupcakes. Who sent you?" she demanded. "You don't look like Noks. Who sent you?"\par
\par
For emphasis she waved the foot of her walker over the shot ankle. He saw it and howled.\par
\par
"Talk. I have a short way with people who try to kidnap me. Who sent you?"\par
\par
"It was -"  He wanted his ankle back.  She knew it hurt. \par
\par
"Shut up." The other one was trying to get out from under his buddy on top of him, who was afraid to move. \par
\par
"You shut up.  We're bounty hunters.  We were told to find a soft target and bring him or her in for questioning."\par
\par
"More info. Who sent you?"  She leaned onto the walker foot a tad and the foot went closer to the ankle.  His eyes went wide and almost rolled back into his head.  She had not even touched him.  What a cupcake.\par
\par
"You are no soft target, lady."  This was Cupcake #2.  \par
\par
"Looks like you picked on the wrong old lady, sonny. Who?"\par
\par
Now a police cruiser was collecting the driver.  Another cruiser was pulled over at the opposite end of the street. He then pulled up.\par
\par
"Everything under control, Mrs. Crawford?"\par
\par
"Well, except you gave them my name. You want to take these twinkies?"\par
\par
"Please," they begged,"Get us away from her."\par
\par
They took her statement.  She was five minutes late to prayer meeting, because she took time to reload.  Just in case. \par
\par
------------\par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
Dennis learns that the Boss has attempted to obtain privately (Ranch) held Kikker Industries for years but has gotten nowhere.  The Ranch has been under IRS hassle since 1976 and all records are sealed. He can get nowhere.  They won't hire anyone from outside the Ranch or Nicholls who is unknown to them, so he can't get agents sent in.  Immune to bribery, women, alcohol, blackmail, espionage, he can't find a foothold.  He had moved to Harrisonville specifically for this, and then hears about the gold.  And decides all the investigations are a way to get the Ranch shut down and the gold in his hands, even if he can't get Kikker Industries, which he still wants.   When it is clear that he cannot get the gold or Kikker Industries, he sets his mind to destroy both.  The pressure he is putting on both does not seem to be working. He will increase it.  \par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 2 Nicholls Is Taken\ulnone\b0\par
\par
The town of Nicholls rises up against Johnson.  Southwark and several city council members, along with Nicholls Bank officials, flee north to Harrisonville.  Feds also raid Johnson Bank in Harrisonville: we hear of this remotely.  No one knows where Johnson is. \par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 3 Ellen Bread\par
\par
\cf3\ulnone\b0 Deem rescues Ellen from Eddie. In the fight the bar begins burning; Ellen asks for a catsup package when Deem returns to the car, and he goes back into the burning bar, fights some of the guys again, and leaves with the catsup packet.  She asks about mustard.  He looks at her. Never mind, she says.  They leave, pursued.  They break the pursuit.      Johnson appears at the Ranch, now out of flunkies except for the one, catches Deem, Isaiah and Ellen together. He takes them to the sinkhole. \i  \i0 Johnson thinks he sees the diamond in the sinkhole and falls in.  \ul\b\par
\cf0\par
\ulnone\b0 "The cry goes up from Jerusalem" - there is a call to pray at the Ranch because of the things that are happening.  But things only get worse.  At night four bodies are dug up and the bones cast aside: someone is searching graves.  The bones are left in the sun and the wind: the Sheriff views it as a crime scene, cordons it off and leaves it like that for weeks.  One of the robbed graves is that of Karl Sallow, leader of the false prophets in the 1970s. Bones thought to be his have turned black, and they quickly decompose with a horrid stench.  Simon Brot's grave is untouched.  By the time the Sheriff makes it back with a forensic investigator, the bones have all decayed or have been scattered by wild animals. Only three skulls, and some hand and foot bones were left: little to re-bury.  As they had put a guard on the cemetary, no more graves were disturbed after that first night. Other graveyards receive nighttime visitors, but those graveyards were guarded and the visitors left before they could do anything.  One visitor left a shovel as he fled.  \par
\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0 Deem is betrayed by his amaneunsis,  who is there on behalf of the CDP and sent after the man is resurrected.\par
\par
The town-church disbands, briefly. Deem weeps uncotnrollably. The elders look at him like he is nuts.  They must have herats of stone, not caring for the lost, for what has been, for a dead church. Something has been lost, he says, and it is right to mourn and grieve over it.  This pierces their hearts.  \par
\par
The Epper church in town starts up again, sort of like a multi-site from the Ranch.  They get their old, big building back. In the background are prayer meetings, which the elders do not attend and wonder at Deem for attending.  Prayer is fine, but don't overdo it. \par
\par
Natalie fits in here. \cf1 Does she?  How is she central to the story?\par
\par
\cf0 Deem receives a threatening phone call from an unknown.  Deem knows where the treasure is, or can find out.  Or his church is toast.  They will be in touch with him. Click. \par
\par
 The church was torched, again, in the night. This time it was burned to the ground.  From now on they meet in the high school auditorium.  There were too many to meet in the funeral home, which was now unwilling to take them after the "spectacle".\par
\par
 \par
\par
Pollers are still setting up their new house. Ellen is kidnapped by her mother, brought to Eddie (it's on the orders of Johnson, who also says he wants her for himself and no one is to touch her) and rescued by Deem, who discovers his self-defense training by the Bear has come in handy.  Weed, stoned, is discovered at Eddie's place when Deem arrives.  He is no longer welcome back at the Ranch after this. He sort of ineffectually tries to fight but wanders outside instead.\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720 "I feel so stupid," she said,"exposed, like a woman caught in adultery whose skirts are stripped off."\par
\par
"Quite the Biblical image: Hosea, I think.  But here it would seem to be a little extreme," Deem replied. "Stupidity is not faithlessness."\par
\par
"Does that really help?" Ellen looked out the window at the flat, dreary world.\par
\par
"Consider that one day they will be fully exposed, stripped, humiliated.  Their adultery against God will be exposed for the whole world to see.  We are all stupid, at times, and in this case only a few people knew about it, and I think God is using it to bring about good.  They will have no chance, ever, to feel better about their situation. Forever exposed, forever shamed, forever unable to live it down, outlast it or avoid it."\par
\par
"You preacher man, you."\par
\par
"I have dealt with a lot of shame and humiliation in my time. Believe me, I know what it feels like. I am not speaking theoretically or dogmatically, just from what I have come to realize."\par
\par
"So you can know something and not realize it."\par
\par
"Definitely. Head knowledge as opposed to it being real. Real-iz-ed. Made real.  And God is not mad at you.  Their situation is entirely different."\par
\par
"I feel sorry for my mom.  Despite everything she has done."\par
\par
"I believe it."\par
\par
"No advice, preacher man?"\par
\par
"Unsolicited advice is rarely welcome.  You already know about forgiving, praying, moving on."\par
\par
"Yes.  but now it is a little more real.  To use your word."\par
\par
"It's not my word. I didn't invent it."  \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\par
A bar fist fight scene between Ranch people and Eddie's hoods, in which the bar catches fire and is burning.  Ellen, not realizing what is happening, asks for a ketchup packet. Without a word Deem gets out of the car and goes back in, gets in ANOTHER fight in the burning building from the rack, and makes his way out.  "I don't like this brand," she says. "Live with it." he replies. She back as they leave, "Oh. This will work."\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Chapter 4 Attack on Hair Bair\cf0\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 As a precaution the Ranch has moved everyone out of the trailers.  That does not stop a 3 AM raid in which automatic rifle fire rips up the trailers, which are then set on fire. Hearing the gunfire, ex-Marines from Nicholls block Main Street and man the barricade. Ranch Security chases the shooters back over the fence, but they have vehicles and flee. Ranch Security gives chase.They attempt to knock the barricade aside with their truck, get stuck and begin shooting. They are killed.   \par
\par
All the trailers are destroyed. \par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Chapter 4 Final Chapter\cf0\ulnone\par
\par
\b0 Eddie and his goons try to find Ellen in a nighttime raid on the Ranch but are caught.  This leaves the Boss without operatives on the ground. He has people elsewhere but no one who knows the area, and he prefers that no one knows about aspects of his business beyond their immediate concern. He decides he has to handle things himself as everyone else is incompetent.\par
\par
He has Mike Smirnoff and Weed drive him in, past security, on the pretext of visiting his parents. Both are known. The boss is hidden in the back seat.\par
\par
Weed knows where to find Deem, and Ellen.  He forces them to go with Weed, Mike and him and Mike down to the sinkhole.\par
\par
----\par
Do you really think there are people God has devoted to destruction? Ellen asks Deem. As in, created specifically in order to damn them?  How does that fit in with the idea of God is love?  God is also sovereign and just, and God is love, not love is God.  Our understanding of God's love is in itself an anthropomorphism.  So we cannot really know it? Ellen asks.  We can, Deem replies, but only in a limited way.\par
\par
Johnson overhears this. If there is a God, he is welcome to damn me. I want no part of him. \par
\par
Case in point, Deem says.  Like an author, God can create a despicable character only to destroy him as part of the overall plot.  And the author may actually be fond of that character, and yet he is doomed.  We only have free will inside of the greater story. We are carrried along by all the history that has ever happened, and by the hand of God who rules and directs all things.\par
\par
You will be doing theology to your death, Johnson snarls. Better than anything else, Deem retorts. \par
\par
--\par
 If Deem doesn't come back up the sinkhole with the diamond he will shoot Ellen.  Deem looks down the long unstable slope to the hole, the bottom of which cannot be seen.  He attempts to get the gun from Johnson, who, even though he is very old, beats him with the pistol.  Mike grabs Johnson.  They wrestle and fight as they slide into the hole - I thought you were loyal - my loyalties were wrong - then I hope you die - Johnson tries to turn the gun on Mike as they slide - the gun goes off in the depths after the two are no longer visible - there is a roar as more dirt and rocks fall into the hole on top of them, and Deem and Ellen escape.  Weed is totally useless for either side here. \par
\par
 \ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
Ellen finally agrees to marry Deem. He has risked a lot for her, something no one has ever done. They walk past the cemetary and read off names from tombstones, including Simon Brot's. It gives her a sense of continuity, eternity: someday she will be buried, perhaps here.    What secrets are sealed by the lips of the dead, she wonders, and what is it I can do today that will last forever? What did they leave behind, this Ranch, and people who are forgetting who they were?  Cemetaries make her pensive. Sad so many have died already, as the Ranch is not all that old.  Many here are older than the Ranch.  They watch someone jackhammer out a grave using the old rock pick. The legendary Joyce Dunbar had found it long before either of them were born, and with the care Eppers gave equipment, it probably would outlast both of them. Would the Ranch? Such things were in God's hands, not theirs; best to keep them there in faith. \par
\par
 -------\par
 \par
 \par
how are the Ranch, Nicholls and the trailer court all in a state of crisis and how is Deem the solution to their problems by linking them? Perhaps the Council of 12 is confronted with their own authority and it overextension as Erastian and ensuing evils.  Nicholls has fossilized, the trailer court has devolved to despotism by organized crime, and the leadership model the Ranch is using (one eldership over everyone) is not working.  They want a structure, it would seem, of a bishop and presbytery and then a pastor and elders in each settlement.    But that is not clear and they certainly do not presume to create a pastor, let alone a bishop. Some settlements have created boards, but are uncomfortable calling them sessions as they want the involvement of a bishop. \par
\par
Obviously Eppers do not separate civil and ecclesiastical functions as in the WCF.  With the Eppers the church seems to have swallowed the state.  How does their dual structure of bishops and elders answer this?  It is too neat to say that the bishops handle the religious and the elders the civil matters.  Instead it is a mix.  From time to time the presbytery or the elders of a church may employ the power of the sword, never the bishop or the pastor, yet those operating as civil magistrates may not be pastors, elders or bishops. The 'administrator' such as John Cassell can hold such authority - but his office is dependent on the church.  So John is a magistrate per chapter 23.  The elders cannot order him to do anything, they can only hire and fire him, which forces them to consider everything he is doing rather than a single issue. At the same time they approve or disapprove his budget and, if necessary, line items. \par
\par
Historically administrators have been appointed by bishops, chosen by presbyteries, sessions, and even elected by and from the people of a church.  So there are administrators both at the local level and at the level of the presbytery.  Eppers have no markedformal organization above that of presbyteries. The denomination supports the seminary, relief and mission work, and committees, such as the unfortunate Committee on Doctrinal Purity. Yet there is an archbishop, and an arch-administrator, whose roles are limited to negotiating and resolving disputes, but never by decree, pronouncement or via arbitration.  Deacons typically report to the adminiistrator, and the administrator to the elders (including the pastor). The archbishop may call a conclave of all bishops at the request of any bishop, and he has no veto power.  The bishops decide what will be necessary for any issue to be approved, which can vary depending on the issue. \par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
\par
Nicholls is like Jeremiah's Judah in contrast to the trailer court's Israel or place of casting out and shame, the proud city versus those who are looked down on, many of whom are not the criminals they are thought to be over in Nicholls.  It's poor and it's where a certain element is allowed to live, but it's also where other elements live who are not wanted in the pristine city. If you don't cut it in Nicholls, either you leave the area, or you wind up there.  Deem is drawn to it. It is the third community Deem draws together as he works on police outreach to them and standard community outreach to them.  It does not all go well.\par
\par
\par
\par
The never-ending legal hassles with the feds and the state is actually a protection against Johnson, who cannot get records even as he talks to state and federal agencies.  As public citizens they recoil from his flashy, overly rich condenscension of them and gross attempts at bribery and other things that would possibly work in private industry, and have for him, but not here. He has alienated government, which he does not understand. The agencies will not help him. But the Ranch legal staff is pretty good, and he underestimates a certain Katie Poller and others as he considers this ramshackle collection of tralers (he visited the south end with Ivanovich, once, and scoffed at the church service) and figures they are no match for him.  People picked up at church that there is evil here, without specifying it is him.  In any case he is wholly unmoved, as if he were a vessel doomed to destruction.    \par
\par
auditory descriptions more than visual: conversation as the main method of description and revealing of personalities\par
 \par
depth of sin and forgiveness - maybe dealing with issues and patterns of sin, not just the actual sin but structures and choices that give rise to sin, damage in the identity: patterns of poverty, autism, homosexuality, transgenderism, racism, sexism, prejudice, alienations of all kinds. Where does grace intersect our lives? And some people make stupid decisions and reap the consequences - are there enough of them?\par
   \par
 \par
\par
   \par
\par
\par
 \par
Deem unites  the two very different cultures, the Nicholls Marines and the Ranch, which has a Jesus people hippie feel that I have not really brought out, just that they are hardworkers.  Deem makes observations about other people that really apply to himself, such as the deacon being a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief.\par
 Isaiah/Deem/Ellen??  Deem sees her as untouchable, Donna Gratia, far above him.  \par
\par
\par
 read through, continuity, repetition. irrelevant, improve focus, sharpness, interest, details; bring out characters.      self-control vs treasure should be a theme \par
Crazy Harry and the boss are parallels, on different scales.  Crazy Harry falls into the sinkhole at the end of section 2, and Deem thinks his troubles are over, not realizing that the Boss is behind Crazy Harry.   Crazy Harry should foreshadow the Boss but in contrast Crazy Harry is more of the world, and the Boss of the devil.  Perhaps Part 1 should be against the flesh, then, whether in the Christians who fight it as the redeemed do, or in the tag-alongs?\par
\tab counterpoint to treasure is renouncing the worthless, even setting counterfires \tab against the coming judgement: CH epitomizes this\par
\tab someone who is indifferent to any kind of treasure. Natalie earlier?  \par
\par
The story is disjointed.  Times don't line up. Town is too negative. The sinkhole is not tying any of these loose strands up. Some should go. There are too many unresolved questions, like how do all these things get resolved?    \par
\par
\tab there are still time sequence problems and too many loose ends\par
judgement is coming - how can we separate out the stubble and straw that will be burned up and be preserved through the fire? The prairie fire is there to express such judgement and an opportunity for Isaiah's pa to use it as an object lesson to build his life right, not on or with straw, on a solid foundation.  True treasure passes through the fire. \par
======\par
\b Ir Shalom\par
\b0 All of Ir Shalom had been arrested and deported by their former government and their land siezed; they were kicked out of wherever it was "Now incidental-there is no return" - they have a sense of exile but they have sublimated it to exile from heaven, sojourners on earth, a sense that things here are temporary that others perhaps do not share. \par
\par
}
 