{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Eddie was not happy.  He was no longer her boyfriend. He was something worse. Why had all her boyfriends been mean? What was wrong with them all? Michelle rubbed her arm, where it was bruised, and softly felt around the cigarette burn on her left elbow. No, Eddie had not been happy, not happy at all.  Now there was one of his goons on both sides of her. It was one thirty in the morning and they were approaching the Ranch. When they had grabbed her out of the closet where Eddie had thrown her, she thought they were going to kill her then and there.  It was explained to her that she was the only one who knew where Ellen was on the Ranch, so now it was sometime after two - her glasses were missing, and she could not see very well - but she could not move very easily, either.  The goon on her right was pressing on her right wrist, just in case, and the goon on her left had her left wrist.  They were all crammed in the back of the van they used.  It smelled like cigarette smoke and urine and vomit.  \par
Eddie was not a nice guy. She had figured that out.  She knew what men were like, but she still got in bad situations.  Her only way out was to go to the Ranch and hope, somehow, they would be able to rescue her.  That guy who had rescued Ellen was huge and could fight. Maybe he was near her. Maybe he was her lover. Maybe he could rescue both of them. At any rate the Ranch must be asleep and this time they were ready to kill the guy.  All five of the goons in the van bore marks from that guy.  They would find Ellen, and then they would take revenge on him.  They had a syringe ready, and rope.  They would take that guy with them and take revenge on him.\par
That was all they wanted to talk about.  They compared slow, cruel ways to kill people, and Michelle realized it was from experience.  She was afraid, more afraid than she had ever been. Why wouldn't they kill her, too? Unless they could use her to make Ellen sing. They would kill her if Ellen would not sing.  That was it. \par
It was a cloudy night, with the stars hidden and what there was of the moon gave little light. They stopped.  There was a farm gate of some kind in the headlights ahead of them. Michelle could see that from the back seat before they turned the lights off and she was pulled out of the car.\par
"Oh," she said.  She was dizzy and trembling."I'm sick. I need my medicine."\par
"Right. When we get back with Ellen, you will get your medicine." One goon took the back of each arm and forced her to walk forward, a little more quickly than she wanted. They frog-marched her to the gate. \par
"Padlocked," one of them said.  He shook it for emphasis.\par
"Be quiet, dork, we want no noise."\par
"We go over."\par
Michelle told them she was old and sick and could not climb the gate. A second later she looked up at the guy who backhanded her to the ground. He told her to quit whining: she was going over. She tasted blood but said nothing. She slowly got up.  Several were on the other side of the gate already - they helped her across.  She was more afraid than she had ever been in her life. \par
Somewhere in the darkness a large dog barked, not close but not far away.  There were answering barks.\par
"Ok, Michelle. Where is this trailer? It can't be too hard."\par
"I was here only once, in daylight - ow."\par
"Shut up and lead us."\par
They walked down the road and began to cross the gravel driveway.  It sounded like there was a cow in the darkness to their left.  \par
"Sounds like rain in front of us," someone said.  There was a noise like rain in front of them, and then on the sides, and then behind them, but no rain. The noise stopped.  They walked another few steps and there was suddenly barking all around them - not one dog, but many dogs, all in the dark, all large, it seemed, all around them.  Then there was silence. There was some growling, and then silence again. \par
The men pulled out their pistols, but there were no targets. The men  stopped moving and drew together. Michelle was towards the front, still held on each side.  \par
"What are we going to do?"\par
"Just a few dogs," someone said.  Lights were going on in trailers ahead of them.  "Let's shoot the first one that attacks." \par
"Come on," said the guy holding Michelle's right arm with his left, and they began walking again.\par
There was a sudden sound like rain right behind them, and Michelle's arms were suddenly free. A dog brushed past her leg and sat in front of her. It was a Dobermann Pinscher. There was a lot of angry noise from a lot of dogs and some yelling from the men.  A dog came and dropped a pistol at her feet, wagged its tail, and then ran back behind her.  She turned, and all of the men were down.  Another dog brought her another pistol, and then the sleeve of a coat, and then a pantleg and a shoe and another pistol.  One man in his underwear got up and ran, chased by dogs, and vaulted the fence.  Then another, and then all of them. The dogs would only let them go when they were disarmed and stripped down to their underwear.  Michelle noticed the dogs had given them only surface bites, and could easily have killed all of them.\par
Michelle tried to move, but the dogs crowded around her and they would not let her go anywhere. So she sat down, and the dogs expected some petting.  They pressed around her, panting happily.  Doggy smell and doggy breath.  She patted doggy heads.  Many doggy heads. \par
From beyond the gate came, "Where are the keys?"  It was pretty clear they were somewhere on the gravel parking lot, now owned by dogs. \par
"You gonna go back and get them?"\par
"It's too far to walk."\par
"Well, I see them." The dogs had dropped them about ten feet from the gate.  There were no dogs near the keys.  It was clear, and a fast man could probably get them and be out before the dogs could react.\par
Michelle watched. One man was selected to get the keys. \par
He vaulted the gate and had not begun to move before there were dogs, angry dogs, this time biting somewhat harder. They let him back over the gate, but not before his arms and legs were freely bleeding.\par
"They did that on purpose."\par
"I guess we walk. Or call Eddie."\par
"He's not going to be too happy."  Their voices faded away into the night as barefoot, they went back and sat in the van.  \par
 About ten minutes later a sedan pulled up near Michelle.  It had a spotlight, and Michelle saw torn clothing, including shirt sleeves, pants, shoes, suit jackets, wallets, and pistols, scattered across the parking lot.  There was very little blood except up by the gate. Two men got out who reminder Michelle of policemen.  They saw her, and they saw the car parked outside the Ranch. The dogs wagged their tails and whined happily, and they were all given biscuits. One of the men called in reinforcements, Michelle could hear, and one man watched while the other turned to her.\par
"Are you ok, ma'am?"\par
She wasn't.  She was feeling very sick, between missing her medicine, the stress, and fear at being caught by these people.\par
"Tell Medical we need an EMT at South Gate. One sick woman." he said into his mike. "We will take care of you," he said to Michelle.  He took her pulse and flashed a light into her eye. Did that happen when? Before he asked if she was ok? He was a nice, tall man. She wondered if he had a girlfriend.  \par
Then there was a blur. She was in a car, lying down. No, on a table. She saw a doctor. Someone asked her lots of medical questions.  They gave her a shot. Things were clearer after that, and she was given a place to sleep that looked a lot like a hospital bed in a hospital room, with even a nurse at a nurse's station outside. They had taken blood samples and had felt her all over.  Someone had photographed her burns and bruises and examined her jaw. She remembered getting x rayed and someone even checked her teeth.  They told her she would get glasses in the morning.\par
In the morning  Michelle got a stream of visitors. People that looked like police asked her what she was doing there, and who had burned her and why. Who was she? They  keyed her statement in and returned with a print copy, asked her to read it and sign it.  She squinted. "Looks right," and she smiled.  An older gentleman came and told her she was under Ranch protection and was considered a refugee: this is a refuge city. For now she will be at the medical center, for observation.  She saw a dentist and an eye doctor, and picked out eye-glass frames. It was nice, but the bill will be huge, she thought. The food was good, too, and everyone was treating her nicely.\par
\par
"It's ok, Kati, the dogs are out. Security is on their way," Matt told her.  A buzzer had gone off indicating someone was messing with the South Gate.  Matt watched a monitor in their bedroom as the men and the elderly woman came across the parking lot.  He knew other people were watching the same scene and were getting ready. He recognized them, and he really didn't like how they were treating the woman.  She was there against her will. He guessed it was Ellen's mother. He dressed and got his shotgun, strapped on a sidearm and watched silently as the dogs did what they were trained to do.  He chuckled quietly and nodded at Amram Boom, who was watching with him. There were four others there, all armed and silent. It was unlikely they would get this far, but if they did  here was a second line of defence. The Ranch had had problems for years, and this had all been hashed out.  Typically Ranch Security would handle things.  And there really could not be a better system than the dogs and their trainers. But Security handled the north gate mainly.  Matt lived right next to the South Gate, and backup was never far away.\par
Security came, took the woman.  The dogs dispersed. Anothe vehicle came, unlocked the gate, and went through it and met up with the van from this side at the same time another vehicle approached from the other side.  In a few minutes the two Ranch Security vehicles came back through the gate, towing the van and went north into the darkness.\par
There was silence, again, but Matt felt it was not over.  The others left him alone sitting under the canopy by the hanger.  Before him lay the scattered belongings of some men that would be gathered in the morning. Security had put up Crime - Do Not -Cross - tape over a good bit of the parking lot, and Matt knew that somewhere someone would appear and stop him if he crossed the tape.  They would want to photograph everything in daylight, but someone was unobtrusively present.  That wasn't what was bothering him.\par
He went over and checked that they had indeed padlocked the gate. They had.  He went back and sat on a box under the canopy.\par
He waited.  It was a still night.  He then heard a car make the turn onto the road that led to the Old Gate.  He guessed it was a Cadillac.  Its headlights came into view. It came up to the gate and stopped.  The lights went out. The door slammed.\par
"Gotta do it myself. Fools are afraid of a few little dogs. They will all be fired. FIRED. I will have to find her myself, I guess. I will if I have to search every one of these stinking broken down trailers and every hippie and pothead out here." The man was at the gate. He shook it, found it was padlocked, and found he could squeeze through between the rails.\par
"Tight fit. Where are those guys? Probably drinking and tripping. They are fired. What is this?"\par
He had come to where their stuff was mangled and ripped and all over the parking lot.\par
"Torn to shreds?" he pulled out his pistol.  Matt sat. He had a clear view and saw that the dogs were mostly behind him as he walked forward.\par
"I'll shoot the first one of these I see," he said,"Go away, dogs! Run away!"\par
He aimed his pistol at where he thought there was a dog. That was enough, as a wave of dogs bore him down and flattened him. Matt got up.\par
"Be glad you didn't shoot," Matt told him as he approached. "They don't like gunfire. Bad things happen to strangers who fire weapons near the dogs."\par
 A dog dropped Eddie's pistol at Matt's feet. It was bloody. Matt kicked it further away from the pile of dogs with a man under it somewhere. Eddie caught sight of Matt. "You!"\par
"Yep."\par
"I'll handle this," Ranch Security said.  He had appeared out of nowhere. They could do that. Matt had no idea where he had been. Matt looked north, and a vehicle was making its way towards them.  Matt stuck around long enough to hear,\par
"You presently go by Eddie, but that is not your name. Your name is ----- and there are outstanding warrants for you in three states and various other jurisdictions. You are under arrest for trespassing, for involuntary confinement, torture as well as a list of crimes I won't go into now."\par
"You ain't got nothing on me."\par
"One of your men turned state's evidence. He is hoping for a reduced sentence."\par
"Who? Who? I want a lawyer!"\par
"You'll need one.  Let me read you your rights -"\par
"Who are you?"\par
"You can call me Deputy. Deputy Carpenter, if you need my name. You have the right to -"\par
At that Matt turned and left.  It was over. He went back to bed.\par
\par
Brenda, a detective from Ranch Security, knocked politely on the Poller's door the next morning and asked for Ellen. She was back in the role of a \i jongedamme\i0  after explaining to Kati what had happened.  Kati and Matt had many questions, and they were sufficiently satisfied with the answers. \par
"I will never trust Mother again," she said for maybe the hundredth time that morning. She said it to Matt, to Brenda, and now Brenda was standing next to her. They were looking through a one-way mirror into a room where Michelle was. Michelle had been told to sit there for a little while and someone would come to get her.  Michelle was checking her hair and wishing she had some makeup.  She felt her bruises and burns through their bandages and wondered what was going to happen next.  They had told her they would help her get off drugs, and she needed to wait there.\par
Ellen clenched her teeth and her fists. "That is my Mother. She ruined my life. She just had me kidnapped and she was leading them here last night to kidnap me again.  She has lied to me time and time again. She is a snake. You know the story about the snake, Brenda? Mrs. Hook told me.  A man was walking along a road and he saw a half-frozen snake in the snow. He picked it up and put it inside his shirt to warm it up and let it live.  The snake bit him. The man lay dying and asked the snake how it could be so cruel. The snake said he knew it was a snake, he should never have picked it up. That is my mother. I can neve trust her again.  And I don't think anyone else can, either."\par
After a pause she said,"What will happen to her?"\par
"That is a good question.  We do not think she is safe anywhere else.  We will offer her the chance to put her life back together."   Ellen said, "She ruined mine, and tried to again."\par
"Yes, she did," said Mrs. Hook, who had arrived. "Officer Brenda, I believe Ellen has identified Michelle is who she says she is."\par
"Yes, she has."\par
"Look at her, Ellen. She is a broken, sick, weak old woman who has burned her last straw in the world and realizes it."\par
"She has been mooching off the kindness of strangers her whole life."\par
"It would be a harder and crueler world if she could not do that.  'I was a stranger, and you took me in'. Noah took the serpents as well as the peacocks, the warthogs as well as the pandas.  All kinds are called.  We cannot judge those God sends us. We weed when there is no choice, but charity is extended as far as is possible.  You yourself should know that."\par
"Yes."  Ellen had served time, after all. Her mother had managed to always escape.\par
"Taking in strangers is fundamental to us. Do you know of the Stand? Has anyone explained it to you?"\par
"I have heard it mentioned. It happened a long time ago."\par
"Seventy years is not so long in history.  A few here know of it first hand."\par
"Ok, what is it?"\par
"Before World War II there were Epper villages from the Dutch coast to the border with Russia, small villages scattered.  They took what they called the Stand, against Naziism, and they took in the Jews, the handicapped, the homosexuals, the retarded: all the people the Nazis hated."\par
"And what happened to them?"\par
"Some of them sent their children away.  The Nazis took all of them with a special anger, and today none of those villages exist. They were all killed.  We would like to think we would protect the poor, the crippled, the Jew in the same way.  That we would take the same Stand.   We see your mother as someone in need of refuge - even if, like the snake, she has venom. We will take the risk."\par
"But she, she, she.."\par
"I know. You told me. You have brought her up in our conversations many times. And now God has brought her her so you can forgive her face to face."\par
"Forgive her? You know what she has done."\par
"Is what she has done to you more than what you have done to God, and more wilfully, and more frequently? Look at her, Ellen. Many of her actions are controlled by drugs or fear or desires, sometimes right desires that were long ago coopted by other things, darker things that she allowed into her life."\par
"You have said before that I need to forgive her.  And looking at her, it is still hard. God grant me grace to forgive her."\par
"He does. It is yours to take up."\par
"I will, then, forgive her.  Although I may have to keep doing it.  She will be at the Ranch, then. It would be very hard if we saw each other frequently."\par
"I agree.  She will probably be going to West, which is smaller.  She needs some medical care first, particularly going off drugs.  The Ranch has a long history of freeing people from drugs."\par
"Do they all stay off?"\par
"Not all. But we have had successes."\par
Ellen stared at her mother, who was feeling her jaw at the moment and looking in the mirror again.\par
"Mrs. Hook, I would like to tell her about Jesus's love.  We went to different churches and she has heard, but maybe now she would listen. She has pretended many times to get saved in order to get something, but maybe..."\par
"I think you should try. I will go with you. Now."\par
Ellen's eyes widened. Now?\par
\par
It was a comfortable chair, but Michelle was not fooled by the mirror opposite it.  Clearly it must be a two way mirror.  Maybe Ellen had come and looked at her. These people were not trustworthy. No one was.  Why were they being so good to her? What was the angle, the racket, the trap, the plot?\par
They had been gentle, calm,  polite: the very opposite of Eddie and a long history of men like him.  He had been the last.  Now she was too old and how could she live? The men had gotten worse and worse. She had nowhere to go, not a dime, not a friend in the world. She had badly betrayed her daughter.  She had no more tricks to play. Every card was on the table. There were no excuses, nothing had counted.  It was like she was up before a judge who knew everything.  She thought about her life and what it amounted to.\par
Then the door opened, and Ellen and another woman came in.\par
"Are you here to kill me?" she asked her daughter. "You have every right."\par
"No, Mother. If I can, I will bring you life instead.  You have been killing yourself long enough."\par
"I have done so much against you. Why not? Is it easier just to keep me alive, I suppose. I hurt all over.  I am old. I have not had my medicine. I am sick. Just kill me. I have lived long enough. Please."\par
"I forgive you."\par
"No, you don't. You realize I came to the Ranch, knowing full well what Eddie would do to you?"\par
"I don't think you knew. I think you believed him when he told you it was one night."\par
"You are a liar. Ok, I accept your Christ.  Let him take me. Are you happy now? I will go ahead and join your $%&#(@ cult."\par
Ellen forgave her mother. It was taking some work, but there it was.  \par
"I forgive you.  I am not going to hold it against you."\par
"And who is this?"\par
"This is a dear friend of mine, Mrs. Hook."\par
"Hello," said Mrs. Hook.  Michelle thought she looked like an old school marm. Strict and proper.  Probably beats children with a stick.  Ellen looked at Mrs. Hook, who was giving Mother a loving smile.  How could Mother miss the love in her face?\par
"Well." said Mother."I suppose she is the one controlling your mind. You know, holding your leash."\par
"Mother, may you have grace and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ."\par
"You know well enough I have heard enough of that. There is no grace or peace for me."\par
"Jesus loves everyone. Even you."\par
"Yes, I saw that on a bumper sticker. Now you are boring me."\par
"He loves me.  He gave me a new life - here.  There is good news. It is because of His good news that you are here and not dying somewhere, at Eddie's hands or someone else like him."\par
"That is a point. I am wondering why I am still alive."\par
"So you could hear the good news. Really hear it. I think, up until now, you have always relied on yourself. On your looks and charms and smarts.  That has come to an end, hasn't it?"\par
Her expression changed. "Yes", she said, very quietly.  It was very convincing, but Ellen also knew she could be very convincing even when lying egregiously.\par
"Real good news, Mother."\par
"There is little enough of that in the world. If he sent someone my way I would accept it."\par
"Well, he sent us."\par
"You? Do you remember the Copenhagen concert?"\par
"Barely."\par
"Well. Why would God send anyone who acts like that? You know what you are: a slut and a jailbird and a drug addict. A pushover.  You were my puppet. I could make you dance."\par
"God redeemed me. He made me new.  I am no longer those things, because He forgave me and cleansed me.  You, too, can have new life. You can start over."\par
"I am too old to start over."\par
"That is not what He says."\par
"What does he say?"\par
"He says, 'grace and peace to you. To you, personally. To Michelle, to you. Forgiveness. An end to warfare with everyone.  Strength and sanity and real happiness. Not happiness at the end of a needle, but the happiness you really want, the peace you desire but never comes. Instead of having to take more drugs to get an unsatisfactory peace, you can have a peace that you cannot understand, one that is forever."\par
"I want that peace."\par
"You can have it.  Tell Jesus your life belongs to Him now. He will save you, but your life will be His.  It always was, anyway. Now you will cooperate with Him."\par
"Where is He?"\par
"He is here, now. we come in His name."\par
"You? Again, Copenhagen."\par
Ellen thought a minute. "I am sorry about Copenhagen and how I was living. I now apologize to you for how I must offended you. I have already apologized to God for that, and for many other things. He has forgiven me.  And because He has, I can tell you the good news, news I have learned not because I am good but because I am forgiven."\par
"Well, you ask me to forgive you.  So if I want  I could hold this against you."\par
"You could.  And I could hold things against you.  The problem is that God could hold a lot more against both of us, because we have both sinned a lot more against Him than against each other. So not forgiving each other only causes problems."\par
"So you forgive me?" Michelle asked.\par
"Yes," Ellen said. A second later the water glass on Michelle's tray landed in Ellen's face. Her mother was not strong, and it did not hurt, but Ellen was wet. It had been about half full.\par
"Oh, forgive me," Michelle said.\par
"I do," said Ellen. \par
"You're serious."\par
"Yes, I am. I forgive you."\par
"You meant all that about God. And peace and forgiveness."\par
"Yes."\par
"Sometimes I wish...I mean...You know we went around to different churches and I pretended to get saved. Me and my two little girls. And they would help us. They really would.  After a while they would get tired of it, or suspicious, and we would go to some other church. Mostly good churches, nice people, real suckers.  We ran that con for years."\par
"I know.  I was there."\par
"I don't even know when I am being honest with myself anymore. What I believe."\par
"I think you are being honest right now."\par
"But you don't know, do you? I am really good at lying, you know. I taught it to you."\par
"Yes, Mother. I know."\par
"I can lie to you and to me - and to God. If I asked for this forgiveness, maybe He would just think I am trying to con Him."\par
"Well, you can't con God.  And all of us approach Him with impure motives, to begin with. He calls us, and then He cleans us.  He does not call perfect people. He calls the sick and the sinner, not the healthy and the righteous. He called me, and He is calling you."\par
"How do you know that God is not running a con on you?"\par
"He is good, Mother.  You can trust Him."\par
"Trust. It is long since I have heard that used except to manipulate people."\par
"But you can trust Him."\par
"I can?"\par
"Yes. You can."\par
"All that #^$*@# about peace and love and forgiveness. You know, it puts a very bad light on people like Eddie. People like me. Somehow it seems better, more real, if you know what I mean. More honest. Less of a game.  Ellen, I am so tired of playing games. Running from one con to another, from one man to another. The sea is rising, as someone said, and the islands are disappearing. I fear I will drown in a vast and cold ocean. Or get eaten by sharks."\par
"Well, it's one or the other.  Either trust God or be destroyed."\par
"Oh, Ellen, do you have to put it so crudely?"\par
"Not crudely.  Truthfully.  There are no other alternatives."\par
"Well.  My way has not worked. It almost got me killed. Ok, I will follow your Jesus. I will make Him my Jesus."\par
They talked a little longer, and prayed.  When Ellen left, her mother was reading the Gospel of John.\par
"I think you have forgiven her," said Mrs. Hook.\par
"Yes," said Ellen."Finally."\par
"It's ok to cry."\par
\par
 \par
 \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 