{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Papa shook Isaiah gently. "Isaiah, there are some men here who want to talk to you." Isaiah shook his head and woke up.  Rain was still plinking on the roof.\par
"Who are they?"\par
"One is Sherriff Owen. Another is Elder Yaddock. And there is a man from the ice cream parlor in town. Then there is me.  Tell me, son, did you go into Snake Wood yesterday?"\par
"I went where it USED to be.  But there was no woods there. It was all burned down. So there was no Snake Woods. So how can I get in trouble for  going somewhere that does not  - Am I in trouble?"\par
"No," Papa thought to himself, this one is always the lawyer. And he argues his case well. " You can't be in trouble for not going into somewhere that does not exist."\par
"Huh? I think that is what I was saying."\par
"Jeremiah said the trees were still burning.  Branches were falling.  Do you understand one could have fallen on you, and you could have been killed or hurt?"\par
"I kept my eyes open."\par
"You knew it was dangerous?"\par
"Well, yes.  But I - well, I was curious.  I figured God got rid of the snakes so I could see it."\par
"That's - well, I think the idea that God burned down half the county just so you could take a walk around where Snake Woods used to be is a little extreme, especially with no better reason than to satisfy your curiosity is a little extreme, don't you know?"\par
"Yes, sir."\par
"But you didn't need to go there in the first place, did you?"\par
"No.  It won't happen again."\par
"I am sure of that.   Risks are one thing when we have to take them.  But it is foolish to go out of your way when you don't need to do something dangerous."\par
""But how can you get ready for the big risks if you never practice with the little ones? Oma always says get the little things right, otherwise you will never get the big things right. Is she wrong?"\par
"Never mind.  Jeremiah told us the whole story. Now, did you climb down into a hole?"\par
"Yes.  I promised not to climb UP anything without talking to you.  You didn't say anything about climbing DOWN, so I thought it was ok."  Then, also, there had been the feeling that he was supposed to do it, called to do it.  But Isaiah knew that God could arrange for him to do something and Isaiah could still be held guilty, and also that this was no way to get out of punishment.  Some other time he would have to discuss that feeling, that was more in his memory now as having happened than he was aware at the time.  But he could not put that into words, especially not before getting out of bed\par
Papa smiled. "You are not in trouble.  But there was a boy in town yesterday who matches your description.  I thnk you need to talk to the men in our living room."\par
"Now?"\par
"Yes."\par
So Isaiah rubbed the sleep out of his eyes and stood up and straightened his pajamas. \par
Two minutes later  they went into the living room, where the three men were sitting on the couch.  Mother was sitting a little apart, her big sewing bag on her right, her hands moving so quickly that they could barely be seen as she mended.  Her hands usually moved that fast. Lois, who usually was helping Mother, was absent - Isaiah's brothers were not there either.  Mama watched silently.  She had that very serious expression on her face, the one that meant bad things were going to happen very, very soon.\par
"That's him," said the bald man on the end. Isaiah had never seen him before.  Wait, he had been in the ice cream parlor, in the back. He had come out and said something to the boy behind the counter when Isaiah was eating his banana split. And then gone back again, but had yelled at Kenny. \par
"Are you sure?" asked the Sherriff.\par
"I have no doubt." The man locked eyes with Isaiah.\par
"Just a second here," Papa said. "This is Isaiah Poller, my son. Isaiah, this is Sherriff Douglas, Detective Ryan, both of Nicholls County, and Mr Butler, owner of Nicholls Bar and Grill. You know our Elder Yaddock. They want to talk to you."  Isaiah and Papa sat down on the small couch opposite.  Isaiah suddenly wished Boomer was there, to hold onto.  He grabbed Papa's hand, even if he was almost a teenager.  Sometimes you just have to.\par
They were all sitting on the couch by the door, the three of them taking the space six ladies had taken yesterday.  Not because they were fat or anything,  it was just they took up the space. The Sherriff was in uniform, with a real star-badge.  He had that no-nonsense look a lot of people in Nicholls had.  Isaiah took an instant dislike to him.  Next to him was Mr. Butler, dressed in slacks, an open sports jacket and a rumpled-looking dress shirt.  Mama would never let Papa leave the house with his shirt looking like that.  His hair was 'high and tight' as they called it' and he looked like he had skipped shaving for a while.  He was somewhat younger than Sherriff Douglas, but he had even more of that no-nonsense look.  They made Elder Yaddock look old and weak, with his rim of white hair around the lower edge of his head, including his beard.  On a chair from the kitchen was Elder Yaddock's assistant, dressed in a nondescript black suit.  He was on duty so you weren't supposed to look at him, or talk to him. He had a briefcase on his lap and was taking notes. \par
Isaiah decided he didn't like Mr. Butler, banana splits or not.   \par
The Sherriff turned to Isaiah. "Son, you are not in any trouble that I know of.  But I have been asked to look into this and see whether there is anything I need to be concerned about, and there may be.  There were - certain events - last night that I am indeed concerned about, and I am following up on things. Checking things out. Usually we let the Ranch be the Ranch and Nicholls be Nicholls, separate like, but then there is the Nicholls Trailer Court, where things get out of hand.  It would be bad, very bad, if they were to take an interest in the Ranch.   Were you in Nicholls yesterday?"\par
Mama had given him permission to go get ice cream.  She had that blank look she got that meant almost anything, except there was a great deal of love there, Isaiah thought. Papa was looking stern.  Finally Isaiah looked back at the Sherriff.  \par
"Yes, sir," said Isaiah.  He was gripping Papa's hand.  No reaction. Mama and Papa must have discussed this earlier.  Isaiah pieced it together that there had been a lot of conversations before he had been woken up.  Serious, adult conversations.  Mama was also listening intently.  Now she had a look on her face that was a mixture of surprise, alarm and worry. Somehow things had changed.\par
"Did you eat a banana split?"\par
"Yes I did."\par
"And did you pay for it?"\par
"Oh, is that it? If I didn't pay enough I've got more money. But I paid."\par
"And how did you pay?"\par
Isaiah looked around. "With some old coins I found.  Were they fake or something?"\par
"No, not that we know of.  But they seem to be very rare coins.  A lot of people are interested in where you got them."\par
Isaiah looked at his father, but could not read his expression.  Everyone was staring at him, waiting.  Isaiah looked at them all, puzzled by the looks he was getting. What was going on? \par
"I got them in what used to be Snake Woods. But it's all burned up now."\par
"Snake Woods? Where the deadly snakes are?"\par
"Yeah, I figured they were all burned up. I saw some burned up mice and stuff.  Anyway you could see them 'cause they can't hide in the grass because it's all burned up."\par
"Did you see any snakes?"\par
"Just dead ones, but you could hear them at the bottom of the hole, all rattlin' away."\par
The men looked at each other.\par
"What hole?"\par
Well, there is this hole in the woods. I mean where the Woods were.  There are lots of stumps and the ground is real rocky.   And I went down in the hole  'cause I wanted to, I wanted to get a snake."\par
"Son, was that a wise thing to do?" this was his papa in a very calm tone.  \par
Isaiah gulped.  Usually that question meant he had been really stupid and he would get punished somehow. But they had already discussed it, so this was for the benefit of their visitors, and maybe Mama.\par
"No, sir."\par
Silence.\par
 "But I climbed down this tree, only it fell down the hole, and I jumped onto this little ledge, and it was dark, and there were these coins.  It looked like the ledge went off in the darkness, but I don't know how far."\par
"How many coins"  The Sherriff and Mr. Buter leaned forward together, all at once, like they were joined at the shoulder.  Elder Yaddock followed, more slowly.\par
"I don't know. A bunch.  And it looked like there were some old boxes and stuff, but it was dark. I threw some coins down at the snakes, because I was afraid they might come up at me. And I grabbed a few and got out of there. A few coins, I mean. Not snakes."\par
"How many boxes? Can you describe them?"\par
"I don't know. I forgot.  And it was dark.  Do you want to see the coins I still have?"\par
They did indeed.  They passed them around and looked at them, then gave them back to Isaiah. He stuck them in his pocket. He had to take them out and wrap them in tissue paper, and then they were put in a little metal box and given to Mama, who did not even look at them, but put the box in her sewing bag.  They asked him more questions, many questions, but he really didn't know the answers to them.  How many boxes? Hundreds of coins? He didn't know.  It was dark.  At least five boxes, he guessed.  He didn't know.  How big were the boxes? He didn't know that, either. They saw that and stopped asking.\par
"Well.  This is amazing.  You put those in a safe place, Isaiah, maybe somewhere really safe. You should talk to your father about that. Do you know the legend of the treasure?" This was Elder Yaddock."A long time ago there were some bad bank robbers.  They had a lot of money and they hid it on this land, only no one knows where it is.  It happened right after the Civil War. People have been looking for it ever since."\par
The Sherriff said, "I heard the Millers hid it."\par
The man from the ice cream store said, "I heard it was a wagon train full of silver coming up from Santa Fe, and the Pawnee killed them all, and then the Millers hid the treasure. But that happened in the 1840s.  I heard Rufus Miller, who was raised here, on this land, became a Marine and told his buddies about it during the Civil War, before he was killed, and they came back here to  find it.  That is why Nicholls was built where it is.  But no one could find it."\par
"Well, it was a long time ago, and it was a legend until you, young man, brought it to life. Well, Mr. Poller, said Elder Yaddock, "thank you for your time.  We will be going." \par
After the  Sherriff and the man from the ice cream parlor left,  Elder Yaddock paused for a moment and said, "Remember how Bilbo and the dwarves woke the dragon? That was a legend come to life, too. People forgot until they saw a live dragon. I fear that a dragon has woken, but it is a harder dragon to kill than old Smaug.  It is older, more determined and more cunning and ruthless. It is the dragon of greed, and it moves men to find that treasure.  Men who will stop at nothing to find it.  I suggest you keep Isaiah at home for a few days.  And watch him."\par
His papa turned to Isaiah,"When the rain is done, let's go look at this hole of yours."\par
Elder Yaddock smiled. "I should say that would be wise.  I would love to go, but my climbing days are over. God bless and good day. See you at Divine Service tomorrow."\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 