{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Timeline\par
\ul\b 2016\par
\highlight1\ulnone\b0 September\par
\highlight0\par
\highlight1 August\highlight0\par
13th - Lois' wedding, former jongedamme of Poller family.  \par
Wed 10th - Deem eats with Pollers.  Later that night Oma Poller dies.   \par
Fri 5th - Ellen joins the Poller family as a \i jongedamme\i0 .   \par
Thurs  4th Deem has lunch with Father O'Reilly.\par
3rd - Hosea Poller is born. Face-off with the decorating committee. \par
2nd - second elders' meeting.  Deem's stuff arrives from Michigan.\par
\highlight1 July  \highlight0  \par
Wed July 27 Deem visits the Ranch's Wednesday night service, meeting first with the Council of 12. 'A family dinner' at Pollers. \par
Tues July 26 first elder's meeting, division of duties among elders at the Nicholls church. Deem moves into his apartment. \par
Wed July 20- Deem and Ellen see each other for the first time.  Deem gets offer.\par
Sat July 16- sinkhole stops growing. It contains a pool of "quickclay" and continues to be very dangerous, mostly filled with trunks and branches of dead trees.\par
\cf2 Fri July 15 - Boss Johnson is swallowed by the sinkhole. Likewise Crazy Harry.\cf0\par
Thu July 14-  AT gets judge to allow them on uninhabited parts of Ranch. AT geotech crew investigates sinkhole, which is still expanding.\par
Wed July 13 -   Isaiah meets Deem on Deem's visit to the Ranch with the Bishop. Ranch obtains a stay in Nicholls County Court regarding AT's claim.\par
Tuesday July 12 - Deem meets privately with Elder Cassell.\par
Mon July 11 Papa and Isaiah look at the sinkhole. A man attempts to sneak into the Ranch but runs into Melanos. Advanced Technologies obtains mineral rights to the Ranch .\par
Sun July 10 - Deem preaches for the first time at Nicholls EP Church\par
Fri July 8  -Prairie Fire, coin found, sinkhole, Deem's interview, Papa Poller faces down raiders\par
Thurs July 7 - Deem meets with Kitten and Dennis \b 19:25 July 7, 2016 Nicholls\b0\par
Wed July 6 - Deem arrives in Nicholls. Deem's interview, encounter with Crazy Harry, Isaiah finds the coins \par
\highlight1 June\highlight0\par
June 12th - Ellen publicly joins the choir at the Ranch.\par
\par
\highlight1 May\highlight0\par
Deem graduates from seminary. His parents reestablish relationship, basically to talk him out of this course he is taking.\par
\highlight1 April\highlight0\par
Pastor Hartmann leaves\par
Ellen is released from prison, moves to the Ranch.\par
\highlight1 February\highlight0\par
Due to financial mismanagement and dwindling attendence and offerings  the Nicholls church loses their building.  They rent an old frame church that had been long closed. Elders decide they need to take action regarding Pastor Hartmann.\par
\ul\b 2015\ulnone\par
\b0 Deem's mentor, Professor Jan Plumm, is up on heresy charges along with several seminary students.  Deem is almost kicked out but is cleared. Dispute continues after he graduates. \par
\b 2014\par
\b0 Ezekiel Poller is born.\par
Deem is very ill with pneumonia the spring semester but finishes courses anyway.\par
A colony is sent out 100 miles north. \par
A number of people at the Ranch conclude its days are done and move into Nicholls, Dary Profim Schneider and her husband among them. \par
\b 2013\par
\b0 Sarah, Deem's intended, ends the relationship.  He enters seminary. Parents end their relationship with him.  He is arrested at a Pro-Life rally for trespassing and is assaulted in jail. \par
\b 2012 \b0\par
Daniel Poller is born. \par
\b 2011\par
\b0 Ellen Ripley Bread is busted for distribution of controlled substances. She denied the charges. She enters federal prison.\par
Melanos arrives as a calf.\par
First large greenhouse is built.  It is a success. There is non-stop greenhouse construction from this point onward.\par
There is also non-stop legal and regulatory action against the Ranch at a federal level starting this year. Kati is hired by the Ranch along with other lawyers, some of whom are more full time and defense goes national.  Security is increased.\par
June - Pastor Hartmann is called to pastor the church in Nicholls.\par
April - Pastor Schmidt of the Nicholls Epper Church, dies. \par
\par
\b 2010\par
\b0 Jeremiah Poller is born. A second trailer and then a third trailer are added to the Warren. One trailer is converted to a greenhouse.\par
They take the census this time.  Population is 5,100.  A colony is forming to be sent out. \par
\b 2009\par
\b0 The West LCG moves to their new location as a separate colony. They are still on Ranch property. \par
\b 2008\par
\b0 Isaiah Poller is born. \par
Oma moves to the Ranch to help out.\par
There is turmoil, settled by election. The professional management team is voted down, Matthew Poller becomes general superintendent of the Ranch. \par
\b 2007\par
\b0 Matthew and Kati Poller move to the Ranch. They receive a trailer. \b\par
\b0 Kati Poller is admitted to the Missouri bar. She joins a firm that specializes in suing the federal government, mainly does legal research, playing defense in federal  environmental regulations, some federal labor regulation.   The firm does pro bono work for the Ranch, which seems perpetually mired in confrontations with federal agencies.  \par
\b 2006\b0\par
Matthew and Kati Poller are married in Maryland.  \par
After much confusion and disorder at the Ranch has been building for several years, the Council of 12 brings in a professional management team to make day-to-day decisions and improve operations.  \par
Death of Paul de le Grande\par
\b 2005\par
\b0 Nicholls Epper church constructs their new building.\b\par
\b0 The old quarry is converted to a pond after heavy rains.  They had hit a deep layer of flint, anyway.   A new quarry is begun south of the pond.  Someday it will be part of the pond.\par
Construction of the Hanger.  First new stone houses are built north of the trailers.\par
Kati Smit (Poller) graduates from law school and enters into being a \i jongedamme\i0  for two years in preparation for marriage. Undergrad in prelaw and law degree from U of Md. \par
\b 2004\b0  \par
\b 2002\b0\par
 Kati  Smit (Poller) is graduated from U of Md with a BS in Plant Science and enters law school.\par
\b 2001\par
\b0 Ellen Ripley Bread begins her meteoric career.\par
The Ranch, now in operation for 25 years, has a Year of Thanksgiving. It is curtailed by the events of 9/11/2001, and begins a Year of Intercession. There is much heated discussion about when it actually began, in typical Ranch manner. \par
\b 2000\par
\b0 Ranch declines to take a census. Estimated population is 5,000.  They did send out another colony, this one to 100 miles south.\par
\b 1998\b0\par
Kati  Smit (Poller) enters U of Md to study plant biology and science.\par
September - Marcel and Lydia visit. Lydia stays.\b\par
1997\b0\par
Sandy Sands accepts the role of an elder in the Epper Nicholls Church.  \par
\b 1993\par
\b0 July - suspicious trailer fire during church services.  Night prowlers. It suddenly stops. People begin getting large dogs. Lots of large dogs. \b\par
\b0 May - the cottage and the barn are burned in apparent acts of arson. No one is ever caught. Full time security patrols at night are instituted. \b\par
\b0 April - The Council of Twelve moves to remove Peter Muis from all leadership functions, but before they can he is found dead in bed.  It is never proven that his 'girlfriend' killed him.   leave. \par
March - the old farmhouse burns to the ground in an apparent act of arson.   Security patrols at night begin for six weeks.   Sandy Sands leaves the Ranch. \par
Jan -The stable burns to the ground in an apparent act of arson.  Peter Muis and his wife separate quietly, living in different parts of their large house, but pretending to be married to keep up with appearance.  \par
\b 1992\b0  \par
May-September - conflict between Council and Michael and Peter Muis.  Michael accepts a call to a church in California. \par
May: Michael Profim graduates from Covenant with an MDiv. He is welcomed at the Ranch as Provisional Pastor, which puts him in direct conflict with Peter Muis, who claims he is in a better place to pastor than Michael.  The Council allows the conflict to fester until 'God shows them what He wants'. \par
\par
\b 1991\par
\b0 After Jake's death, independent charismatic leader pastor Peter Muis arrives with his staff and a following to the Ranch. He is a former Epper and claims episcopal sanction to pastor. His brusque ways are divisive. The Council has no ready answer.\b\par
\b0 Ellen Ripley Bread is born.  \par
Jake Profim perishes in an airplane crash in Africa.  His body is not recovered.\par
\b 1990\par
\b0 This time the Ranch responds to the census.  There are 4,560 people there, 2/3 under the age of 18. \par
\b 1989\par
\b0 Michael Profim graduates from Mizzou and enters Covenant Seminary in St. Louis. \par
The Ranch sends out an Epper colony that was a LGC formed expressly to do this. They form an Epper colony 100 miles west in Kansas. \par
\b 1986\par
\b0 At the Ranch, The Elijah Prophetic School is  disbanded after their personal prophecy usage turns out to be controlling, intrusive and divisive and in violation of the One Church principle held by the Council of Twelve. \par
\b 1985\par
\b0 The People of Praise disband, under the accusation from the Council of 12 that they have become divisive and judgemental.  The leaders leave the Ranch. The remaining praise teams join the regular worship and perpetual worship teams.\par
The Council of Twelve reject the idea that the Ranch should incorporate as a town and secularize, which has wide popularity at the Ranch.\par
\b 1984\b0\par
The Elijah Prophetic School, an ascetically oriented community modeling themselves after John the Baptist, arises on the Ranch.  Elder Cassell rejects being the pastor or even "first among equals".  Division arises on the CoT as to whether to follow more of an episcopal model or a presbyterian.  Since none of them can claim episcopal sanction to pastor, by default they adopt an egalitarian presbyterian model.  \par
\b 1983\par
\b0 "Kitten" Pfingster becomes an elder at the Nicholls Epper Church. \par
End of the Honeybucket brigade, as all trailers now are connected to sanitary sewers. \par
\b 1982\par
\b0  Permanent Water lines are begun to everywhere.  Electrical service comes  to the Ranch to everywhere.\par
prepackaged sewage treatment plant is installed. The Council of Twelve begin to seek unity among various groups, such as the People of Praise, the Jesus People, the Dutch and the American charismatics, to make it One Church. \par
\b 1981\par
\b0 Storm and sanitary sewers are begun, in layer of gravel mostly.\par
The Prayer Garden is constructed just south of the Ranch at the leadership of the People of Praise.\par
\b 1980\par
\b0 Argument over the census. It is finally not taken.  Estimated Ranch population 3,000.\b\par
\b0 Sharp disagreements on the what the Refuge City is supposed to look like and the nature of the Ranch.  Jake reluctantly attempts to settle it and basically defers it to the Council of Twelve, whose position is it will be fuzzy until they say it is clear. Different views are ok as long as people accept their view is not the only one, and that people act in charity despite differrences.\par
The Quarry is expanded, to provide gravel for roads.  Rudimentary storm drainage channels are cut.\par
Kati  Smit (Poller) is born in Maryland.\par
John Cassell pushes for more self-sufficiency. It sounds good, but no one on the Council of 12 has any idea. The LCGs deal with the balance of spiritual needs versus material needs. One LCG starts raising cattle. First referred to as the Ranch rather than Profim's Place. They tried a number of names. \par
\b 1979\par
\b0 Formation of the council of the Twelve"If anyone will not work, neither let him eat" starts being enforced by the Council of 12. Many who will not work leave. A core group of 200 Dutch-type former Eppers forms as an internal settlement  (this is a different group than New Life)and model for others. They start a \i jongedamme\i0  program as well as modeling hard work and a Christian worldview. The Ranch population is broken into 10 Large Community Groups of around 200, each of which has some kind of specialty with respect to the others but with the intent each is mostly self-sufficient. Most of the LCGs are intentionally cross-interest and culture. \par
The Chapel is constructed on a high point west of the Ranch.\par
Summer of Salvation - 2,000 more people arrive (some are returnees).\par
May 20 - Luke Kikker arrives\par
 late April/early May: Trailers arrive, bought by Jake Profim.  Beginning of water lines and electricity to trailers with young children.   'Honeybucket Brigade' is formed: teams go around and clean out san. buckets under trailers.  Most people use communal showers, laundry, and restrooms. The trailers are just left randomly as unhitched, without any order or plan - John Cassell being out of town at the time.  This creates a complex labyrinth of trailers that with the addition of utilities, is pretty well fixed. They had to spend effort on leveling trailers as dumped more than organizing them into any sort of pattern. Some 2,000 trailers. \par
The People of Praise organize themselves as a discrete entity.\par
February - the Long Blizzard\par
January 79 - the Big Blizzard. This began what was remembered as The Winter of Discontent - people at the Ranch endure blizzard conditions in tents.  Only about 350 remained aside from New Life. \par
\b  1978\par
\b0 in July John and Carolyn Cassell arrive at Profim Properties. They immediately put their administrative gifts to work.  In September Kathy van der  Loo, CPA, begins keeping accounting ledgers.  The previous system had been literally a common pile of cash that they drew on to pay bills, but no records of any kind were kept.  Bills were paid. \b\par
\b0 Matthew Poller is born in Nebraska.  His father and uncles spend a lot of time setting iron.\par
\b 1977\par
\b0 March - heresy trial of John Cassell in Alaska. He is laicized and ostracized. \par
May- September - arrival of the second wave, 6000 people again. The place is better prepared but will be sending people away for the winter again.  First large water  wells drilled.  Military-style tents obtained. Many people donate heavily to the 'Refuge City', both incoming people and people from far away.  Some people come prepared to work and bring equipment to work the summer.   A good drainable base is laid down in the area where people are. \par
July - conference on the Holy Spirit on the property following the 1977 Charismatic Renewal Conference in KC (July 20-24). 3,000 of the 6,000 came for this and stayed, mostly outcast Eppers. Jake, now excommunicated,  had attended the conference (and was a speaker in a number of breakout sessions  along with a number of people from his property.  Jake, busy with the conference, had not told anyone that he was having the conference on the property immediately afterwards.  Jake Profim apologizes for the disorganization due to the lack of any leadership and says he will find someone who can stay there and run the place.  \b\par
\b0  Tents. Communal cooking.  Outhouses. Water hauling. Easter Monday: Beginning of perpetual worship. Influenced by Paul de LeGrande, no one takes leadership or organizes anything.  It is all to be led by the Spirit.  There was neither too little nor too much food. \par
\b 1976\par
\b0 November \b -  \b0 Norm Bread returns to Nicholls after retiring from the Marine Corps. He begins working for Mark Kikker. \b\par
\b0 October - Matthew and Mark Kikker arrive.  2 weeks later Mark starts Kikker Pottery in Nicholls. \par
October 1 - 150 people remain living on the property.  Aside from the Booms, de le Grandes and the Breads, they are almost all ex-Eppers from the North who are beginning a settlement here called 'New Life'. They build Quonset huts several miles north, holding to separatism,  and are prepared. \b\par
\b0 September 5 - 2,000 people remain by Jeannie's meal count.  \par
September to November - The house is being built for Dunbars. When completed, it is large enough for Breads and Booms, so they  crowd into it.  \par
August 10 - 104 F\par
August 9 - high point of Ranch population at the Sunday sermon.  Paul tells those who don't have an emphatic call to live on the property to find housing and schooling elsewhere. Jeannie counts 6,012 for breakfast. A man dies of snakebite.  CJ Owen meets Jeannie de le Grande and takes off for two weeks.\par
August 6 - Dunbars move to Nicholls. \par
August  4 - worship practice 2:00 Paul lays out his sermon as discussed in 'AKeithBerg'\par
August  2 - events described in "Joyce Dunbar' take place. Steve is snakebit, lives. \par
July 15 approx - CJ Owen arrives\par
May - August 7,000 people arrive  (avg. about 80 a day but it varied, much higher in August).  Jeannie de le Grande organizes meals.  de le Grandes move to tents to allow their house to be converted to the medical center. \par
May 29 (Monday) Isaac Bread begins quarrying rock.\b   \b0 Roy starts working for the \i Nicholls Chronicle.\i0   \b\par
\b0 May 20 (Thurs) Amram and Jochebed Boom arrive with their three children. The Hanger is converted into a temporary dorm for Breads, Booms and Dunbars until better housing is built,\b\par
\b0 May 19 (Wed) - Roy and Joyce Dunbar and their four children arrive. \par
May  18 (Tues)- Isaac and Anna Bread and their three children arrive.  Paul and Isaac build them a house (May -August). \par
April - Profim Properties is formed after the Mueller Ranch is given to Jake Profim as a gift towards a "Refuge City".\par
March - An article in \i Charisma\i0  on Jake draws both cash and people. He is  surprised to find it is mostly on the Refuge City, more precisely on his 'vision of the refuge city'. Not his intent. \par
At this time, Eppers purge their clerical ranks of those with charismatic tendencies.  A number of those arrive at the Ranch.  Some are known to Jake and take leadership.\par
\b 1975\par
\par
4/30/1975 fall of Saigon\b0\par
March -Jake Profim is pronounced heretical and laicized by the Eppers.  That is like pouring gasoline on his ministry, which takes off.  He begins series of sermons 'the church as a refuge city' which is widely misinterpreted.  A few ex-Epper pastors arrive at Profim Properties. They covenant to 'walk by faith' and pray for provisions to come in.  Their mentality is that they have been separated, so they cannot work for a living. \par
\b 1972 \par
\b0 Pastor Schmitt is called and installed as Pastor of the Nicholls Epper Church.\b\par
\b0 Jake Profim resigns as pastor of the NIcholls Epper church because of his teaching ministry. He also does not want that church the target of pressure from the CDP. Jake Profim moves his family into the cabin Paul had built.   \par
April - June Paul de le Grande builds a house for Jeannie and  himself on the property. It is half workshop and half-eat-in kitchen, plus a small bedroom and bath.\par
When Cam Ranh Bay was turned over to the Vietnamese, Norm Bread returned to the states as an instructor in Logistics.\par
\b 1971\par
\b0 "Regarding Sensationalism" is produced by the Committee for Doctrinal Purity. It is heavily cessationist, separatist, anti-enthusiast, anti-miracle, anti-charismatic, and will be used as a weapon in the coming purges. The archbishop and college of elders endorse it. \par
\b 1970\b0\par
Jake writes "A New Look at Galatians" which some wonder if it is a polemic directed specifically at the archbishop and the college of elders. Their response is that it is fully orthodox and good scholarship fully in line with right doctrine." It is a solid exegesis of the book based on the Greek for the layman.  Later the Committee for Doctrinal Purity takes it under examination. At this point they are looking to get him - he is careful, but too much is borderline non-Epper in what is happening, although it is in areas that have not been defined specifically. The CDP expresses their concern about the charismatic renewal and the hope that Epper churches will not be infected. \par
January - Paul de le Grande builds a walled garden.\par
\b 1968\par
\b0 John and Carolyn Cassell move to the Epper colony in inland Alaska.\par
September - "Let me look on His face"'s review by the CDP states that there is nothing wrong with it except some "unfortunate ambiguities".  Jake is exhorted to emphasize Epper doctrinal distinctives more closely and avoid speculation. \par
October through December Paul de le Grande builds the Hanger, an enormous pavilion with sliding doors.  It is actually a series of hangers from Whiteman Air Force Base that the demolition contractor was going to scrap, found by Joyce Dunbar on a visit.\par
September 14-18 three days of barn raising to build the new barn for Jake's hay. \par
July - "Let me look on His face"  is submitted to the Committee on Doctrinal Purity for examination by several Epper pastors. \par
Jake Profim (28) takes two weeks with wife(26) and family (Darcy 3 and Michael 1) at his property. His seminal ideas on church as the city of God, as the refuge city, are formed now. God can take nothing and make something.  He has a powerful encounter with Christ that he can never describe. After this his preaching and teaching is much stronger and emotional. \par
 April - conversation between Jake and Paul recorded in Beginnings\par
February - Jake publishes his third book. A devotional, "Let me look on His face" has a distinctly charismatic feel. Although it was published before his experience, it foreshadows it.   book They find There is a lot of positive news in Christian press about this, which increases Jake's exposure. \par
\par
January - Paul deLeGrande begins working on the stable.\par
\b 1967 \par
\b0 Norm Bread goes to Viet Nam and is stationed at Cam Ranh Bay until 1972.\b\par
\b0 Jake Profim prays for healing and sort of joins the charismatic renewal, but not full-throttle. This begins a tense eight years of suspicion and growing estrangement with the denomination, while his teaching and travelling ministries expand. He has full-time staff now to handle his bookkeeping, etc., apart from regular church activities.\par
December 21 - Paul and Jeannie de LeGrande move into Jake's newly-built house. \par
November 12 - Paul and Jeannie de LeGrande's first attendence at the Epper church in Nicholls.\par
November 11 - Paul begins building Jake's house. \par
November 10 - Paul and Jeannie take a camper to Jake's property.\par
November 7 - Paul de LeGrande arrives in Nicholls and meets with Jake Profim. .  at Jake's property, builds the cabin, stables. \par
November 5 - Paul's last Sunday. The settlement disbands and gives Paul a year's salary in compensation. \par
October 29 - Paul de LeGrande's first Sunday at that settlement.\par
October 12 - Paul de LeGrande accepts a pastoral call to a troubled Epper settlement in SW Missouri.\par
Wed May 31 - Paul de LeGrande graduates from the Epper seminary in Michigan.\par
April - tornado demolishes Benedictine buildings on the Profim property.\par
Michael Gabriel Profim is born to Jake (27)  and Betsy Profim (25)  in Nicholls. Difficult childbirth and she can no longer bear children.\par
\b 1966 \par
\b0 Kitten Pfingster loses a Marine son in Viet Nam.\par
\b 1965\par
\b0 The archbishop dies.  There is talk of Jake someday taking it, but not yet. But he seems to be in the lineup, although only in his twenties. The new archbishop is a reactionary to a fabled past and is severely serious in his demeanor. \par
Jake Profim's second book, "A Commentary on Paul's Epistle to the Romans" is received widely in scholarly circles.  His third book, "How to be a Christian without really Dying" is a popular Christian hit internationally. Sandra Mueller Benson, one of the Mueller heirs, reads it and gives Jake the land containing the old farm house as a thank-you. \par
Darcy Profim, daughter of Jake Profim (25) and Betsy (23), is born in Nicholls. \par
Norm Bread is graduated from Annapolis. He takes advanced training in logistics and is then assigned to Camp Pendleton, CA.\par
\b 1964\par
\b0 Paul de LeGrande graduates from college and enters seminary.\par
Jake is interviewed for \i the Epper Gazette\i0 . He is hailed as one of the most influential up and coming young Epper theologians. \par
\b 1963\par
May:\par
\b0 Jake Profim graduates from seminary. \par
 Jake(23) and Elizabeth (Boom) Profim (22)  are married. \par
Jake Profim, 23, becomes pastor of Nicholls Epper church. He is the youngest pastor ever in Epper history and probably the brightest. \b\par
\b0 Jake Profim's first book "The Kingdom of God in These Times" is published to critical claim among Eppers. \par
\b 1961\b0\par
Norm Bread becomes a cadet at Annapolis.\par
\b 1960 \b0\par
Jake Profim, 20, graduates from Stanford. He enters seminary. \par
\b 1959\b0\par
Paul de LeGrande starts college, in order to go to seminary.\par
Norm Bread is made a Marine.\par
\b 1958\par
\b0 Catherine Jean Owen ("CJ"/"Jenny") is born.\par
\b 1956\b0\par
child-prodigy Jake Profim enters Stanford U. at 16. \par
\b 1950-53\par
\b0 Kitten serves as a Marine in Korea, manages to stay in despite being allowed a medical discharge due to loss of toes at Chosin. \par
\b 1950\b0\par
Kati Poller's mother is born in Maryland, the sixth child of eight.\par
\b 1945\b0\par
"Kitten" Pfingster returns to Nicholls. He marries Marigold Bread.\par
Eppers look for the Luebeck archbishop.  He is not found. It is presumed all Eppers in Germany and the low countries did not survive the war. \par
\b 1941\par
\b0  Julius Pfingster is made a Marine.\par
Norm Bread is born in Nicholls.\par
Paul de LeGrande joins the army as enlisted. He serves in North Africa , Sicily and Italy.  He returns to the US to train recruits at Jefferson Barracks. \par
Elizabeth Boom Profim born. \par
\b 1940\b0  \par
Jake Profim born.\par
Eppers across the lowlands in Holland, northern Germany, Denmark, and eastward take De Stand, a stand against Naziism and a defence of the Jews and human rights.  Most of them do not survive World War II.\par
\b 1938\b0\par
John Cassell is born in an Epper settlement in North Dakota. \par
\b 1925\par
\b0 Oma, 6,  moves westward to a new Epper colony in Prince George County, MD.\par
Marigold Bread Pfingster is born.\par
1924\par
Jeannie nee Opp de Le Grande born in an Epper colony in upper NY state.\par
\b 1923\b0\par
Julius Pfingster is born in Nicholls.\par
\b 1922\b0\par
Paul de LeGrande born on in an Epper colony in upper NY state.\par
\b 1921\b0  \par
Oma, 2,  arrives into a Delmarva Epper colony.\par
\b 1919\b0\par
Oma, Isaiah Poller's grandmother, born in Holland. \par
 \b 1910\par
\b0 Epper Archbishop Wantz and the College of Elders publish  'A Warning against Sensationalism and Perfectionism' in response to the pentecostal revival. His view is that it is the return of 1830s perfectionism at work on Azusa Street. This will be the doctrinal document until the 1970s. \par
\par
\b 1880s\par
\b0 Mueller property deserted.\par
\b Mid 1800s\par
\b0 A determined theological hardening arose against any sensationalism, including perfectionism, and would later insulate Eppers against what they regarded as the excesses of the Pentecostal and charismatic movements.  An Epper seminary is established at the Epper community renamed to Dordrecht, Michigan.\par
\b 1866\b0\par
Nicholls is founded by a group of Marines, some of whom served the North and some the South, in an effort to restore friendship.  A few of them is Epper, and so is a Marine chaplain, who becomes the first pastor. \par
\b 1861\b0  \par
Eppers split into the Northern and Southern Eppers in the US, basically along state lines. Some communities reform as all-free.  Eppers never had slaves. Some southern Epper communities relocate north. Almost all Eppers who fought fought on the side of the Union. \par
\b 1845\b0\par
 The archbishop moves from New York to the Michigan Upper Peninsula due to urban pressures. Eppers are heavily involved in the underground railroad. \par
\b Early 1800s\par
\b0 Epper communities from western New York to Connecticutt fall into perfectionism, with many eventually becoming Unitarian or secular.  The majority of Epper communities leave.\b\par
1660s\b0\par
Epper crisis of apostolic succession. Do they have it? Why? It is a matter of faith or fact. Crisis of the nature of the church in Epper theological circles.  Some Eppers convert to Catholicism, some to Lutheranism, many become Presbyterian. Thus, Epper numbers, never high, are cut in half.  An Epper archbishop is established at New Amsterdam to deal with this, thus, one in the old world, one in the new. \par
\b 1650s\b0\par
Eppers arrive in New Amsterdam.  This gives birth to Epper communities from Michigan to Maine and all points between.\par
1618 - Eppers split from the Dutch Reformed at the Synod of Dort, finally rejecting both Calvinism and Arminianism.  The archbishop and college of elders are established neat Luebeck, Germany.\par
\b 1567\b0\par
de Alba arrives in Holland.  Eppers scatter, mainly eastward, although they are not yet Eppers. \par
\b 1566\b0\par
Certain formerly Catholic bishops, turned Lutheran, secretly ordain twelve presiding Epper bishops.   Thus one can trace Epper apostolic succession. \par
\b 1564 \b0\par
Death of Calvin. \par
'Those deluded people, pluming themselves with theologial ambiguity, wishing to live in confusion and a return to the tyranny of the bishops while embracing truth! They cannot have it both ways' - letter to Beza, of the early stage Eppers.\par
\par
}
 