{\rtf1\fbidis\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset177 Tahoma;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red155\green0\blue211;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green77\blue187;\red255\green255\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\ltrpar\b\f0\fs22\lang1033 Table of Contents\b0\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\b Part Two\b0\par
\par
1. Isaiah Poller \par
 \i  \cf1\par
\cf0\i0 2. Deem Arrives in Nicholls\par
\par
3. Deem at Pfingsters'\par
\i\par
\i0 4. Deem Comes to The Ranch\cf1\i\par
\cf2\par
\cf0\i0 5. Tony\cf2\par
\par
\cf0 6.  Return to Snake Woods\cf3\i\par
\cf0\i0\par
\b Part Three \b0\par
 \par
1. Mayor Southwark\cf2\i\par
\par
\cf0\i0 2. Nicholls is Taken \cf2\i\par
\cf0\i0\par
3. Ellen Bread \tab\tab  \highlight4\par
\highlight0\par

\pard\ltrpar\par
\par
 \par
\ul\b\fs32 PART TWO\fs22\par
\ulnone\b0  \par
\ul\b\par
Chapter 1 Isaiah Poller\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 viewpoint of Isaiah Poller\par
\par
In the long drought people were more somber than usual because most of the wells were dry, and those that had water were going that way.  Dust was everywhere. Even worship was difficult and God seemed to have hidden Himself. Where are the miracles of long ago? Fellowship seemed strained and everything is dry, dry, dry. \par
\par
\par
 On Wednesday morning Isaiah only picked up on this incidentally.  He overheard a conversation between his mother and her friend. Isaiah was eight years old. \par
\par
His mother found him and his brother Jeremiah feeding worms to the baby. She fiound out they've been doing this for several days. "Well, he's been sleeping better the last few days, but STOP IT." Isaiah was sent outside  [Ranch Isaiah Poller sequence], then giving the reader a tour, , as he wandered around Ha'ir Bair, which he calls Hare Bare. \par
\par
Among other things he sees the old foundation of the stable. It had burned down years ago. Papa said it had been a real work of art, the masterpiece of a master craftsman. Someone named Paul had built it long ago.  Boom's trailers had places where you walked on boards because the particle board floor failed.  He liked it like that because he used the space underneath for storage. His trailers were wearing out, too.  Soon they all would be. Many were already cut into pieces and were being used - cannibalized - cannibalized: he liked that word.  Cannibalized.  \par
\par
Isaiah watched as one of the wild donkeys - they had escaped captivity years ago, and proved too cunning to be caught - got up on the ridge opposite and sniffed for grass, then disappeared down the other side.\par
\par
He heard a train on the the Katy RR, which ran along the west side of Nicholls County, a quarter mile east of the state line. Foot access to the west side is possible via large culverts and bridges.  His Papa once put him in a motorbuggy and they bumped their way to a hilltop, where they looked down and watched a train, full speed, hurtling down the tracks.  Papa told him to stay off railroad bridges because you never know when they may show up and you can get caught and killed. In fact, never go on railroad tracks, ever. Don't even go close. \par
\par
 \par
On Friday morning Isaiah climbed the greenhouse partly to show off to Agatha Pflumm, but mostly to see if he could see Snake Woods, somewhere else he was forbidden from going near. [Isaiah climbs a greenhouse] Agatha was the same age as Isaiah, but she was inside, writing her stories.  She wrote in a beautiful, clear, rounded feminine script with the potential for calligraphic brilliance when she wais older,  in a variety of scripts based on the calligraphy books she had been given. She told  stories about tea parties, as she had since before she could read, involving Rag Doll, Teddy, the Cat, and the Purple Unicorn. Sometimes the Yelllow Unicorn.  They had dull, moralizing conversations about whatever Scripture or moral lesson Agatha had been exposed to that day. Her mother filed them neatly in folders and in file boxes. Rag Doll, in particular, exhorted against the waste of time and laziness and for 'good, honest labor and industry'. In support of that Agatha was only allowed to write for fifteen minutes a day, as most of her time was indeed taken up in good, honest labor and industry.  Teddy moralized on the virtues of thrift and honesty.  The Cat was lazy and never seemed to get the lessons often directed at her. Teddy was fond of keeping your hands off what belonged to others, not being a thief and not stealing.  Above all do not steal glory from God.  She liked to have Teddy list all the ways you could steal glory from God, like self-praise, not-trusting, not-loving what He has made, wastiing time, over-eating, not giving thanks in all things.  \par
\par
The dogs were aware of the unseen boundaries of their own territories and did not cross into other territories unless ordered to.  They were aware of course of who belongs to their own settlement.  Other people from the Ranch were tolerated but could expect several curious dogs to sniff them and accompany them.  People they have been introduced to usually were tolerated, but strangers got barks, growls, even up to an escalation of attacks if they do not leave.  If they threatened the dogs or Ranch people the dogs would not hesitate. They were trained to take down and immobilize although fully capable of killing.  Isaiah's dog stopped at a certain point and barked as Isaiah and Jeremiah headed for Snake Woods, then returned home.\par
\par
\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0 Isaiah  fought the fire at his father's side.\par
\par
\par
He and Jeremiah went down to what was left of Snake Woods, which had been burned out.  He found many bones, human and animal, in Snake Woods.  He may have been the first to ever explore it. Jeremiah found a hole with a tree sticking out of it.  He climbed down it and landed on a shelf as the tree fell further  He found  coins in the hole and climbed out even as the hole was collapsing and expanding.  He went to Butler's in Nicholls and bought a banana split with 1865 coins, telling the boy behind the counter to keep the change.  He left a stunned crowd there staring at the coins.  Once outside, they came out chasing him and he lost the people chasing him by his climbing ability.  He was interviewed in his home by the Sherriff, someone on the Council of 12, and his father.  \ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
"Did you see a diamond? Any bones?"\par
"No," Isaiah replied,"I mean, no diamond.  There were lots of bones, You couldn't walk without stepping on something."\par
"Any shiny rock?"\par
"It was kind of dark. I saw the coins, and there were snakes down below where I was. But no shiny rock."\par
"What about insects? Were there bugs? Biting flies?"\par
"No," Isaiah said,"People say there are some down there. But I didn't see any. Maybe they got all burned up."\par
The men looked at each other. "Maybe we should send someone down there to look at it, survey the situation."\par
"We'll need authorization from DNR to enter that area."\par
"It's burned. Do you think we still do?"\par
"They've been very adamant in the past. I think we need to contact them first."\par
"How long do you think that will take?"\par
"Maybe a couple of weeks."\par
\par
\par
The Council of Twelve responded to the fire with call for a Joel 1:19 prayer meeting and thanksgiving service for all settlements.  But the fire started south of Ha'ir Bair and did not touch settlements in the far south.  It started on Ranch land.  Although it swept passed Nicholls, it did not reach the Cass County line. There was rain to the north. \par
\par
Isaiah's Papa was working on replacing Pump #5 in Ha'ir Mayam.  That pump burned out from overruse. (They had previously lowered it using wooden beams, which had splintered, and replaced that with iron beams, which is why he was involved - and, as happens, the accessway had become cluttered, including with a small stone building, and the well was also collapsing: the stone walls were poorly laid a long time ago, maybe in the War, so the building had to come down). It was  one of the few remaining wells at Ha'r Mayam that had been drilled during the war and later reopened by persons unknown, who had lined it with limestone blocks in the remote past for some distance down.  Twenty feet at least, because that was as deep as anyone had gone in Pa's time here - usually there was water rising to that point, but now all the limestone blocks were exposed.   Ha'ir Bair was importing water from here.   The wells were now marginal and there was talk of drilling deeper wells or even another well field elsewhere, but that cost money and no decision had been made.  The wells were marginal. All rain barrels were empty.\par
\par
Water trucks came daily to Ha'ir Bair and even to Ha'ir Mayam.  Isaiah was watched - he had been told to stay off the water trucks, and they are not convinced he will obey.  He did not appreciate not being trusted with this. Water was  rationed, and Mama had not scrubbed the steps for several weeks, and Isaiah's clothes were getting itchy because they had not been washed for a long time, at least not with water that had not been used for baths already. \par
\par
Katie Poller discussed with her husband what to do about the regulatory fines they were faced with, and a letter they  received.  It was a friendly-sounding offer to loan them the money to pay all their fines, using the Ranch as collateral.   Tempting, but Eppers do not take on loans from outsiders, and the Johnson Bank always seemed interested in the Ranch in an uncomfortable way.  How did Johnson Bank know about the fines?  Probably public information, but this was not the first time they received such a letter. It is like that bank is monitoring their problems with the federal and state regulatory agencies.  Katy will recommend that The Council of 12  not  accept the offer.  Katie is uneasy with the letter from the bank. They do not even have an account there.  The Ranch has a checking account at the Bank of Nicholls, which come to think of it is owned by the Johnson Bank, but why are they so interested in this?\par
\par
Papa told her about the death of the Nicholls Hardware Store owner.  It seemed he had gotten into debt way over his head with Johnson Bank and he had killed himself last night. Johnson Bank was now directly taking over Nicholls Hardware.  Someone had gone in there today to buy lumber and had been told they had been instructed not to sell anything to the Ranch, or to anyone from the Ranch. That was about the fifth business in Nicholls now like that. "I don't like the sound of that." "No. I wonder what their ultimate aim is.  I think their ultimate aim is to take over the Ranch." "A lot of people have been thinking that." \par
\par
There were also some soft spots on the floor of the bathroom - particle board was  giving way. "The Warren is wearing out.  These trailers are old. It's not the first floor that has softened that we have replaced - remember the kitchen, two years ago?" "I  put my foot through it then - that's how we found it. I was moving something heavy - we were between jongedammen, and you were pregnant.  It was a big pot of water, very heavy. It was cold but it went everywhere."  They laughed at the memory. \par
\par
Isaiah's coins were taken to Harrisonville "for testing and valuation" and were not seen again. \par
\par
It was a windowless room in the basement of the Bank of Nicholls. There were three metal chairs, two on one side and one on the other of the old grey table.  A man in his late twenties sat on one side. On the other was an employee of the Bank of Nicholls, and a man from HR who had come down from Harrisonville to conduct the interview, as Johnson Bank had bought the Bank of Nicholls some time ago. The man from Harrisonville held a folder. There was no chit chat - the Nicholls employee smiled and said, "Any Marine in Nicholls is welcome." The man from Harrisonville looked at him, and turned to the interviewee. "I see you spent most of your time in the stockade." "Yes." "Why should we hire you for anything?" Silence. "Tell you what.  We are looking for an employee.  You will get $40,000 a year, use of a car, medical insurance and free housing. And a clothing allowance.  Sounds good?" "Yes." "Only you will do whatever we tell you, and you will not talk about it to anyone else. Is that understood?' He nodded. "And we mean it when we say 'whatever'. Do you understand that?" He nodded again. "Now, we have this file on you." The man from Harrisonville tapped the folder. "It seems you could go right back into the stockade, maybe to Leavenworth, for life.  Or you could do whatever, and I do mean whatever we tell you, instantly, without thinking about it. You learned that in the Marines, right?" The young vet nodded. "No one wants Leavenworth to happen, but I strongly suggest - strongly suggest - you not cross us on anything. D'ya understand?" "Yes, sir," he said, and he knew he was trapped. "If anyone asks you where you work, don't tell them. Tell us who they are and we will take care of the problem." "I don't even know who I'm working for. The Bank of Nicholls?" "Look, kid, I know you are new. Don't be slow on the uptake. I will only say this one time. Your job is not to ask questions. Do you want the job?" "Yes, sir." "We will tell you what you need to know. Understand?" "Yes, sir." "All right, then." \par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 2 Aaron Muis  \par
\par
\cf1\ulnone\b0 We also encounter Mildred Spass, the eternal and seemingly eternally ancient Postmaster of Nicholls, who is determined that no piece of mail should go out the same day it comes into the PO and that any ambiguous or unclear address, of which most are, needs to be investigated before the mail is delivered.  People frequently must come into the PO and show identification and proof of residency at an address to receive mail. She is especially adept at keeping packages from being delivered.  Typically a package will require 3 forms of ID and proof of residency before she will reluctantly hand it over.  You get a card saying We have mail we think may be yours. Please come in. And she moves slowly.  There is a waiting room full of people with numbers, and if you are not served one day, you must come back the next, as her office hours are over promptly at 4 PM.  There is no UPS or Fedex in town, as those are not locally owned and are chains, both of which are strikes against Nicholls.  Some people maintain post office boxes out of town. Both Adrian and Archie have more Nicholls related boxes than are in those towns. \par
\par
The town of Nicholls was never over 300 in population.  In 2016 it was down to around 250 with a disproportionate number of retired Marines with grown children no longer at home, and their wives. The courthouse, occupying a city block, is one story, wooden, unpretentious. The buildings and houses present a scattered, drab look, like they are trying to take up but are failing to fill Nicholl's sixteen blocks.  There iis a sense of looking to the past more than the future, that the glory days have parted.  They were in the 1920s, when there was a hotel and people were interested in digging for treasure west of the city. \par
\par
In 2016 the railroad did not stop and even the Nicholls siding was removed long ago. The station, abandoned by its railroad, can be found by its foundation in Station Park, where there was also a caboose with a fence around it, as it became unsafe to climb long ago. A slide, swings and a picnic shelter complete the attractions at Station Park.\par
\par
The old industrial section of the town was to the north of Station Park,  mainly abandoned or converted because of the loss of the railroad. Here was where Kikker Industries began.  \par
\par
Aaron accidentally missed the turn to the church and took Deen two blocks west, south, and then finally to the church after passing the courthouse. At this point he has seen almost the whole town. They enter on the west side, where the parking is; the main entrance is on the east side, facing the highway. Four blocks west is the new church, at the time of the story padlocked by Nicholls Bank. \cf0\ul\b\par
\par
\b0 Drive to Nicholls\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 Aaron glanced over at the scrunched up, insignificant form of Deem Futz wadded up in the seat beside him. He considered again turning the car around and heading back north, it being madness to even take Deem to the interview. \cf2  \cf0 Aaron had to consider his own relationship with the Nicholls elders, and they would blame him for this.   The temptation was sharper with every exit, beginning with the Cass County line at 155th Street. It was stronger at 163rd Street and it was only with an effort that he did not take the Highway 58 exit.  He'd conquered it, though, by the time he got to the next exit: what would he tell the bishop, his boss, to whom he had promised whole-hearted obedience and loyalty.  His own reputation was on the line here.  He would have to work with the church in Nicholls long after this interview was over, if the church still existed, if the candidate somehow managed to pull that sinking church out of its dive.  And this candidate... But orders were orders, and he willingly obeyed the bishop in everything.  This probably was the biggest test he had ever had in that regard.  Nicholls, of all places, getting this candidate, of all candidates. It was a recipe for disaster. He had discussed that with the bishop.  And now here he was, ferrying said candidate to the interview with the Session, the elders of the Nicholls Church.  It would not be an interview as much as a firing squad, a chopping block, a meat grinder.  He himself would say nothing at the interview itself - that would be between the Session and the candidate.  His was to observe, and to report back to the bishop.  He already had that report partly written in his mind, and the bishop would agree that Deem Futz was the wrong candidate.\par
\par
 Also Deem was very underweight from starving alone in his apartment in Michigan - Aaron had fattened him up before the interview, which was now three weeks later than planned - and from Aaron's persepctive he seemed to almost have given up hope - the second fatal in Nicholls, the worst of all traits.    Aaron was again concerned about how forlorn, defeated and gut-punched Deem looked - likely they would never accept him. He reminded himself as to why he was taking Deem to the interview.  \cf2\par
\cf0\par
\par
Short. Skinny. Immemorable. Aaron forgot what the guy looked like every time he looked away, and he had to look at him twice every time to be sure he was really there. There was something about him that made the eye want to pass over him, as if anything else would be more interesting. This would be it, though.  Today Deem Futz would pass out of Aaron's life after getting the right boot of fellowship at this interview. He would go somewhere - Aaron really didn't care where, past the normal human concern for another human - and life would go back to normal.  The Nicholls church would probably wait for months for another candidate and then reject the next one.  Aaron had requested someone else be assigned liaison to Nicholls, and the bishop had pointed out that Aaron knew them, and if Aaron was right, the church would close soon and he, Aaron, would have that problem solved.  Until then he needed to carry this cross. Thy will be done, Lord.  He, Aaron Muis, would carry out this mission as if it was his own, as if directly commanded from the Throne. That said Throne had heard enough, though, and wanted to hear no more from him on the point of him being reassigned.  "My grace is sufficient for thee." Aaron had spent time before that Throne meditating on 2 Corinthians 12:1-10 until he had surrendered all this to that Throne.  Nonetheless it kept returning, bubbling up at the actual sight of Deem Futz.  \par
\par
All Aaron's faith, all his inner resolution and promises to God and the bishop evaporated whenever he saw this unknown, insignificant person.  There was something about him that made Aaron simply want to slap him away. Insignificant.  Aaron had to remind himself that there were no little people, that no one was insignificant in the sight of God.  Deem seemed to prove that false very convincingly, and that insignificance was the one thing that stood out about him, like a superpower.  Deem had interviewed at a number of churches and settlements, but had been passed over, rejected, sometimes with an angry letter to Seminary Placement concerning the candidate, often viewed only as worthy of complete rejection by the elders. Some had written and wanted to know when he had come, and he had come.  They had forgotten he had. One settlement had asked him to come out of curiosity - could any candidate be this bad?  It was not a job offer, just a curious lark, a waste of their time, a folly.  This bishop had known Deem at the seminary, and Aaron had not figured out why the bishop urged Nicholls to interview him. Or what there was to know.   Maybe the bottom candidate for the bottom church? Nicholls Epper had a reputation.  Long ago it had had the great Jake Profim as pastor before the CDP had ruled on him, and then the great Pastor Smit, but then there was Pastor Hartmann and his wreckage.  Deem Futz as pastor would be the cherry on top.  More accurately, the straw to break the camel's back. That church was down to less than two dozen staunch and bitter ex-Marines and their wives.  Grim, angry, reactionary, bitter after the fight over getting Hartmann out of there, that should have taken a lot less effort, far fewer words, far less fire and brimstone from that Session, and there was still something simmering between the Bishop and the Presbytery and Nicholls. Futz as the bishop's insult?  Aaron shook his head.  That would be nasty beneath his episcopacy.  But was it?  The bishop had not been there very long, after all.  Aaron did not know him that well.  The bishop was often opaque to Aaron, formal, remote, and did not feel he needed to explain himself, as indeed he did not, to Aaron, but at the same time he demanded utter honesty from Aaron, and Aaron felt like he was an open book to the bishop, who sometimes seemed to know him better than he himself did.   Nicholls needed a good, savvy pastor who could rescue a sinking church. But they were staunchly and determinedly Marines down there, or rather their own Marine culture that somehow was super-Marine.  They fed off each other.  Hartmann, the ex-Navy retired chaplain, had made it worse.  Now they could only continue, by mutual consent, if they had a pastor who had never been in the military.  But any good pastor, the sort of pastor they needed, would take one look at the place and run.  That left only the bottom dregs of the seminary as candidates, not the sort of people who could pull a rescue, but also not the sort of people they could accept or follow.  And Deem Futz had, by now, no other choices.  So here was the perfect storm of the worst church in the denomination matched up with the worst candidate.  Aaron figured the church would be gone by winter unless God did something miraculous. He didn't deny that might happen. \par
\par
He remembered hearing of how, at graduation, Deem had been 'passed over'.  Traditionally the dean prayed a specially written prayer over each student.  Sometimes they were lengthy. The gentleman before Deem had gotten a prayer many on the faculty had contributed to, long and full of promise.  He got to Deem, did not even look at him and simply passed him to the next graduate. There was some sort of mix-up: his name was not called and there was no diploma.  They told him there was a mix-up that had never happened before and he could pick it up at the office next day.  However, the office was closed for the traditional two weeks after graduation. His file indicated he had not graduated, but the secretary commented that everything was there.  She gave the file to  her supervisor, who told Deem she would review it and apologized for the delay. She would look into it and get back to him.  Two weeks later she did - his diploma had been ordered but had come back incorrect and had to be redone. A month after that, there was a correct diploma, but issuance was on hold until his bill had been paid.  But it was paid, so they would have to talk to the bursar and get back to him.   They finally gave him the diploma and a statement that all bills were paid.  When he got home that day, there was a letter stating that his application to the seminary had been declined.  He took it into the Admissions office and they apologized for the error. None of Deem's family had come for graduation.\par
\par
He asks Deem if that was true.  It was. And Aaron was unlikely to hear of the old man with the crazy look, a fellow with thick glasses and no hair, who came up to Deem afterwards and whispered "Congratulations," and made off.  He left a piece of paper in Deem's hand that said \f1\rtlch\lang1037\'eb  \'e5\'cc\'f0\'c0\'fa\'c7\'fa\'cc\'c4\'e9\'ea\'c8 \'ec\'c8\'f2\'c8\'ed \'e4\'c7\'e6\'cc\'c6\'e4, \'ec\'c0\'e7\'e5\'c9\'ee\'c7\'fa \'f0\'c0\'e7\'c9\'f9\'d1\'c6\'fa \'e1\'cc\'c0\'f6\'e5\'cc\'f8\'c8\'e4, \'e5\'c0\'f0\'c4\'ec\'c0\'e7\'c2\'ee\'e5\'cc \'e0\'c5\'ec\'c6\'e9\'ea\'c8, \'e5\'c0\'ec\'c9\'e0-\'e9\'e5\'cc\'eb\'c0\'ec\'e5\'cc \'ec\'c8\'ea\'c0:  \'eb\'cc\'c4\'e9-\'e0\'c4\'fa\'cc\'c0\'ea\'c8 \'e0\'c2\'f0\'c4\'e9 \'ec\'c0\'e4\'e5\'c9\'f9\'d1\'c4\'e9\'f2\'c2\'ea\'c8 \'e5\'cc\'ec\'c0\'e4\'c7\'f6\'cc\'c4\'e9\'ec\'c6\'ea\'c8, \'f0\'c0\'e0\'cb\'ed-\'e9\'c0\'e4\'e5\'c8\'e4\f0\ltrch\lang1033 . What's that, Aaron asked. His Hebrew was very rusty, but he could tell it was Hebrew. It was actually written in the old letters, in a form of Phoenician script, not the modern Assyrian or Hebrew cursive, which is what he would have expected.  He had had to go to the library and translate it. It could be translated as, "And I will make thee unto this people a fortified brazen wall; and they shall fight against thee, but they shall not prevail against thee; for I am with thee to save thee and to deliver thee, saith the LORD." The next day, with a shock, he read the verse of the day in the Epper Epistle, Jeremiah 15:20.  That's amazing, Aaron said. \par
\par
Then his phone rang. Aaron got a telephone call from Deem's mother, who asked to speak to her son. She had been trying to call him, since he told her he was going to be in the KC area and his telephone had been disconnected months ago. Aaron heard it because Deem did not turn it from speaker phone. \par
\par
She told Deem he had been nothing but trouble lately. Why couldn't he settle down and act normal? A good son would be there when his parents grew old. \par
\par
"Woe to me, mother, that you have bourne me, a man of strife and contention," he told her.  She said it is because he has taken this seminary path.  They wanted him back home to watch cattle.  That is something he wa good at.  No good getting involved in the ways of pastors - next thing you know you will be on trial or something, and it is worse, far worse, than cattle ranching.  Give up on this whole thing, You are like the prodigal son. Your father will welcome you home with open arms."\par
\par
"You are saying I am prodigal here?"\par
\par
"Well, yes.  They told me you are meeting with a church. Nicholls. Son, that church has a terrible reputation. The town, I mean, and the church there, too.  Crazy ex-Marines. Everyone is armed.  Don't go there. Please. Your mother will worry about you. You may want to throw your life away in some crazy idea that you are called, but I don't see you as a pastor.  You barely made it through your studies and some of the things that happened embarrassed us.  Please, son.  We will pay for you to come back home.  We are praying for you, that you will come to your senses and come home."\par
\par
"I have to see this through, Mother."\par
\par
"I wish you would listen to your Mother."  She sighed. "I doubt they will take you, anyway. Promise you will come back home if they don't take you? And I know they won't. I just don't see it."\par
\par
Deem sighed. "Mother, I will certainly consider it. I really don't know if this will work out. "\par
\par
"And if, for some reason, God forbid, they want you, I think you should decline it. Will you promise you will decline it?"\par
\par
"No, Mother, I will not promise that.  I must do what God wants."\par
\par
"And God wants you to obey your parents. I see no reason to continue this discussion," she said, breaking into tears,  "we will pray for you. We had such hopes for you, and now - oh my son, don't do this to your father and me."  Aaron had to listen to Deem's mother cry over the phone as Deem kept trying to talk to her.  Finally she hung up. \par
\par
There was an awkward silence.  Aaron considered that Deem was more than some kind of stock tragic figure - he was a real human being, despite the temptation Aaron had to consider him as less than that.  He had human dignity, and knew sorrow.  Probably more than Aaron realized.  \par
\par
It was a shame about the Nicholls church.  It had had the famous Jake Profim as pastor, years ago, before he had been declared a heretic and exiled, taking half the church with him.  It had recovered and prospered amazingly under the great Pastor Smit, even building the largest Epper sanctuary in the world and becoming the only Protestant church in town, so good was he.  Then they had insisted on a Navy chaplain like Smit, and they chose Hartmann.  Now they had lost the building, most of the congregation, and they were down to only a very few Marines holding their position. \par
\par
\lang9 Another thing Deem should know is Nicholls was also running low on water. And \lang1033 Nicholls peaked in the 1920s during the Great Treasure Hunt, when people tore up the Mueller property and left in frustration, yet others kept coming.  At one point Nicholls boasted a hotel. It's been converted to something else, or torn down. Aaron didn't even know where it had been. \par
\par
They passed into Nicholls County.\par
\par
"Is that it?" Deem asked, pointing to an exit.\par
\par
"No.  That says Kikker Industries.  But I don't see anything."  Flat, hot featureless prairie ran in all directions. Or was it prairie?  Aaron wasn't sure.  He had thought prairie included those long rolling hills, like up in Cass County.  Here it seemed that there was a flat nothingness.  He'd been told it was a trick of the eye, that there were actually the same sorts of hills here, but it just seemed completely featureless.  A few trees off in the distance followed a creekbed, now dry, the trees brown in leaf, the fields brown as well. \par
\par
"Never heard of it."\par
\par
"No. Me neither."\par
\par
A minute or so later they took the steep Nicholls ramp up to where Main Street crossed the highway.\par
\par
"You are now leaving reality, and entering a pseudo-Marine fantasy land," Aaron said on the exit ramp. He pasued. "I should not have said that. Please forget I said that. These people -"  He shook his head. He would not allow himself to hate them.  Professionally he could not.  He was called to love them, despite their impossibility, their determined arrogance and resilience to any outside idea, anything they considered non-Marine.  He'd met Marine vets who shrugged their shoulders and said nothing when he had mentioned Nicholls.  "Founded by Marines," they would say.  But they would not criticize Marines to non-Marines, like it was a rule or something, in his experience.  \par
\par
"Okay."  Deem watched a motorbuggy, clearly the first he had ever seen, cross the road ahead of him. It was a wooden box on four giant wooden wheels, with a mast and boom for a sail, but the sail was furled. One man sat on the bench in front, and another hung on to the boom in the rear as it hummed along. \par
\par
"Nicholls: Home of the Bulldogs - All Marines are Welcome Here" the sign said, yellow block letters on a red background. It was in a sort of flower bed that was mulch and some dried out plants that maybe had been flowers in their glory days.  Sort of like Nicholls, Aaron thought to himself, under Pastor Smit, or further back, Jake Profim.  Curious that two such influential men had pastored the same church.  And it was amazing that this Deem Futz was candidating here. Times change. \par
\par
Aaron turned right.  "On your left is Station Park - you can see the foundation of the old railroad station, and you can see the fenced-off caboose that the railroad donated to the town."\par
\par
"Fenced off?"\par
\par
"It's unsafe to climb on, I guess.   That happened long before I ever heard of Nicholls."\par
\par
"How long ago was that?"\par
\par
"Five years. Pastor Smit was still pastor, and they were in their big new church."  There was a slide, and swings in the park.  It was empty in the heat, and the brown grass was sparse. Behind the park were some industrial buildings that the railroad had supported before they tore  out the siding.  Aaron relayed this to Deem. \par
\par
"Now the railroad doesn't even stop here."\par
\par
As if to emphasize this the gates went down with flashing lights and clatter.  A freight train with two engines zipped through. They waited.  Box cars. Coal cars. Reefers.  A string of tankers like sausages. \par
\par
"This town is dying, I think.  Probably the biggest source of revenue is Marine Corps retirement checks, but they will complain all day about federal largess and wasteful spending."\par
\par
"They see no contradiction?"\par
\par
"No, most of them paid in blood.  I see no contradiction, and neither should you. Nicholls was named after the founder of the Marine Corps - I forget his full name, but they all know it - and has always sent a large number of its youth off to the Corps. Many have not come back."\par
\par
"I see."\par
\par
"I don't know how many of them, but all the men of the high school classes of 1940 to 1944 died taking islands in the Pacific.  All of them.  That is still a wound in this town seventy years later. There are still gold stars in the windows of the houses where the boys lived, those in town anyway, and it's best you not bring it up."\par
\par
"So there is a big veterans' presence here?"\par
\par
"Immense. And Nicholls Epper is the only church.  The town is actually the same size as many of our settlements, but it is not a settlement.  It is a town with an Epper church, and many people will make that distinction, as they are not Eppers."\par
\par
 They passed a block of brick stores, and then there was the hospital on the left and a row of commercial buiildings on the right.  Pickup trucks were parked at an angle along both sides in front of the businesses.  Four crew-cut men, their jeans matching and their shirtsleeves rolled identically, were marching in step unconciously, arms swinging the same, as they walked somewhere. Each had a holster on his right hip. They nodded in unison as they passed someone.\par
\par
"All trucks.  And everyone seems fit," Deem observed.\par
\par
"Yep."  Aaron considered his own slight paunch.  He was always self-conscious down here.  He was not a Marine, he did not measure up, and they always silently let him know that. In Pastor Smit's day it had been a warm and welcoming fellowship of people who truly loved each other and loved God more - things had gone downhill and now they had the bitter end. He impercitibly shook his head.\par
\par
"You have doubts about me," Deem said,"I know. I don't blame you."\par
\par
Aaron was supposed to build the candidate up.  He felt worse. Deem knew, which surprised him.  The man had always seemed almost unaware of where he was or how people felt, despite how all the presbytery staff had latched on to him and were sad to see him go.  Glad to see him get an interview, but he would be missed.  Aaron had not understood that.  Or this. This sucked the last vestige of any kind of pleasure at all from this.  The whole thing was approaching indecency.  These people in Nicholls always made him understand they considered him inferior.  What would they do to Deem?  The elders when Pastor Smit was here had been a great session.  But Pastor Hartmann had forced several resignations and brought a few on board that were, shall we say, less than ideal. And Pastor Hartmann had had no business interfering in the selection of the session.  It had been unethical, had been commented on, and the comments had been ignored. But Pastor Hartmann was gone. Thank. God. \par
\par
"Ahh - I should have turned back there to get to the church. I guess I'm still thinking about going to the new church.  Driving and talking at the same time. Nicholls only has sixteen blocks in a grid, so it isn't a great distance.   This town has no street signs and no stop signs. No speed limits.  They try to get their regulations to a miniumum, and the ones they enforce are quirky."\par
\par
"Like what?"\par
\par
"The theory is that armed people will be cordial to each other, so there is no need for stop signs.  Everyone knows where everything is, so there is no need for street signs.  But there is a need to always carry a loaded sidearm at all times.  Cops will stop you and make sure you have a round in the chamber if you are a Nicholls resident. As soon as we leave Main Street you can expect that we get pulled over.  But I am going to take you around to the courthouse, and you will see what I mean."\par
\par
"Here's Butler's: the coffee comes in two flavors: Battery Acid and Civillian.  Do not order the Battery Acid - although it's half the cost, it is way too strong,  burnt and bitter. They take a pride in it.   The food is good, though, and there is plenty of it.' \par
\par
 From behind the big window, from a booth on one side, a wild-looking man glared at Deem until they could see each other no more.  "That's Crazy Harry," Aaron said,"I was warned to stay away from him. Seeing him puts a chill on my heart." Deem nodded. "Nicholls is mainly retired Marines of a peculiar strain.  You could say their own culture.  Pastor Smit used to have a large ministry here to help people struggling with PTSD that drew people all the way here from Joplin to St. Joseph."\par
\par
"PTSD?"\par
\par
"Post traumatic stress disorder.  In this town, if you stay, you will hear that a lot. Most of the men are combat vets."\par
\par
"What happened?"\par
\par
"Pastor Hartmann.  He told them they were crybabies, to suck it up and get over it. He shut it down."\par
\par
"I see.  He was the last pastor here, right?"\par
\par
"Yes.  Doctor Underwood, a psychiatrist with twenty years experience treating PTSD in Marines, moved his whole practice here.  Pastor Hartmann drove him out of town."\par
\par
"Pastor Hartmann -"\par
\par
"Let's focus on today.  I like to move on from that. There is, however, a debris field here, like the bright and shiny new church building, now padlocked, that they had lost.  They were back in their first building.  But then there were not a lot of them left, fewer every Sunday. We need to think about what is next, not what is past."\par
\par
Deem took this in.  How much did he know about the last pastor? How much did he really know? Maybe he had heard everything.  Maybe he knew nothing.  And did it really matter?  Deem would have to put the church back together, if anything short of a direct divine intervention could do that, and listing all that had gone wrong would not be helpful.  And the whole thing was still a bitter memory to Aaron.  It still stung, there were still tensions between the elders and between himself and them, and between them and the presbytery, and between himself and the presbytery, and even between himself and the bishop over this.  He wanted to make it good as liaison, but maybe that meant shutting down the whole sorry church.  In five years Pastor Hartmann had taken a very healthy church and almost destroyed it.  And there had been very little that he himself, Aaron Muis, could have done about it. \par
\par
 Aaron silently drove.  Somewhere underneath, he was still seething. Despite counsel and prayer, he was still angry.  He pronounced forgiveness one more time on one and all and repeated his determination to see that God would bring good out of this horrible mess.  He might never know the how or when, but he simply had to trust God. \par
\par
Two blocks later they turned left.  Before they got to the end of a block the police car behind them lit up.  With no other traffic on the road and nowhere to turn off, Aaron simply stopped on the gravel.  It had been gravel since they had left Main. \par
\par
"Keep your hands in the open,"  Aaron told Deem.  This was Nicholls.  Just about anything could happen.\par
\par
Behind them the police officer seemed to do nothing for several minutes.  Then he got out and slowly approached them.  He was undefinably ex-Marine, still in shape, still buzz-cut under his DI hat, a mountain of confident swagger and authority surging along the street.  Big black boots, body armor, enormous holster on one hip, enormous billy-club-slash-flashlight on the other, his uniform crisp, his eyes hidden behind aviator glasses, smooth shaven, ball cap set low the way Marines wear fatigue covers.  If there were two cops like this in town, they could shave each other with their chins.  It was unlikely he was capable of smiling. There were three in-town cops, the last time Aaron knew, one detective, and one cop who roamed the county roads.  The three in-town cops looked like clones of each other.  \par
\par
"Good afternoon, sir" this one said to Aaron.  His head moved as behind the glasses his eyes roamed the interior of the car.\par
\par
"Good afternoon, officer," Aaron said. \par
\par
There was a silence.  Finally, "You're from out of town, right?"\par
\par
"Yes, sir."\par
\par
"Let me see your license, please."  The 'please' was tacked on to what otherwise was an order. \par
\par
With a frown he examine the front, then the back, then the front again, as if convinced it must somehow be a forgery. He even turned it sideways and looked at it that way, from all four edges.  They went through the same examination with regards to the insurance card.\par
\par
Behind the glasses the cop was expressionless, as if not knowing what to do with people from out of town. "May I ask what you are doing in Nicholls?" The tone indicated they could have no plausible, legal, ratonal, unquestionable reason for setting foot inside the city limits or driving their streets.  \par
\par
"I'm taking this candidate for the pastorate to his interview.  I am afraid we may be late."\par
\par
"Is he there already?"\par
\par
"I'm right here," Deem said.  The officer's head snapped back, as if seeing Deem for the first time.\par
\par
"They are expecting you.  I heard they are going for... a non-Marine.  That will be a first.  I expect you'll be leaving immediately after the interview?" He did not wait for an answer. "Welcome to Nicholls, sir. Well, good day."  He handed Aaron his license back, and they turned left on the next street.  The cop turned left behind them, fifty feet back.\par
\par
"This is Courthouse Square. That's the county courthouse."  There was an unimpressive one story limestone building, sitting in the lawn of a city block and dwarfed by acres of dried grass around it.  There were buildings on two sides of the square, and one on the south side.  No trees, of course, for a clear field of fire as someone had seriously told him once.  Those who were expecting a Japanese invasion at any minute were dying out.  There were low granite memorials to Marine actions in conflicts going back to the Revolutionary War that gave it the air of a cemetary.   South of the courthouse was vacant land that stretched to the horizon.  Only three sides of the courthouse square were built - someone had had grandiose dreams about the town that had never come to fruiition.  \par
\par
"Stone foundation.  Must be old," Deem commented.\par
\par
"Yes.  Or for all I know concrete foundations are outlawed in Nicholls. Most of the buildings were built before 1900 anyway."\par
\par
"There are a lot of buildings from the 1700s back home."\par
\par
"West Virginia, right?"\par
\par
"Right. Berkeley Springs."\par
\par
"Sorry, I never heard of it.  But you were raised on a settlement?"\par
\par
"Yes.  Mountain Valley - we lived some miles south of the Springs  Apples, cattle, chickens, wheat and a number of crops."\par
\par
This was personal information, more than Aaron wanted to get into right then.  He reminded himself that it was likely the interview starting in five minutes would be the end of things here and of knowing Deem Futz. He did not reply. \par
\par
A scruffy, homeless-looking man was walking along the street.  He glanced at the car, and without warning opened the back door, got in and shut the door.\par
\par
The strong odor of sweaty, unwashed man, mixed with that of urine and several other unpleasant odors that Aaron could not place, washed over them from the back seat. \par
\par
"Are you a pastor?"  His breath was bad, too. \par
\par
"No. Of all the -"\par
\par
"I seen your plates.  How come you got that sticker then?"\par
\par
"I am an official with the presbytery.  This car is church property."  Aaron was tense. The man had to leave.  Why was he here?  \par
\par
"I need to see a pastor.  Name's Whiggins, if that helps."\par
\par
"Sir, it does not.  Please get out of the car. Now."\par
\par
"Not til you tell me where I can find a pastor. I ain't going anywhere."  It would probably take two weeks to fumigate the car.  And delouse it. \par
\par
"We are on our way to an important meeting. We both want you to leave."\par
\par
"Both? I thought you was alone."  He seemed to see Deem for the first time.\par
\par
"I don't think you should leave," Deem said softly.\par
\par
"What? Deem, this is unprecedented.  One does not pick up people who climb into your car."\par
\par
"I think Jesus would."  Aaron was silent.\par
\par
"Whiggins, you are welcome.  Eppers have a long history of hospitality."  Deem glanced at Aaron; the best Aaron could do was to give him a warning glance.  This was, after all, part of the overall interview process: how did the candiidate interact with the community.  And this was a big, fat, solid, screaming F. \par
\par
"You are Eppers? That Pastor Hartmann told me I was going to hell. Is he still around?"\par
\par
"No, he's not."\par
\par
"That's the smartest thing them Eppers ever did, then, getting rid of him."\par
\par
"I am not at liberty to discuss it with you."\par
\par
Deem turned,"I am here to interview for the position of pastor."\par
\par
"I think you will make one damn fine pastor."\par
\par
"Thank you."\par
\par
Aaron could not think of what to say.  After a minute he continued his tour to Deem, as if the hobo was not there.  "I think the place was founded by Marines after the Civil War.  They expected thousands.  Not that many were interested. I heard - I haven't verified it, but I heard -  Nicholls County records state that Marine vets founded Nicholls in the late 1860s.  I put it that way because some say the town was pre-Civil War but there is no proof.  The weirdest thing about this town are the rumors of buried treasure passed from lip to lip: a persistant rumor was that the Marines settled the town to hunt for the treasure on the Mueller property, as Nicholls County has nothing, really, to offer anyone except poor pasturage. It's supposed to be treasure from everyone from the Incas to Blackbeard to the civil war to war plunder from World War 2.  I have no idea why there are so many rumors about it. If you are here any length of time, you will hear plenty of those stories.  I, personally, do not believe any of them.  Probably made up by people to try to attract people to this place.  Well, that's the VFW Hall, and that's the shooting range."  \par
\par
"My mother is a whore. I don't know who my father is," Whiggins offered. "Thanks for pickiing me up.  I got nowhere to go except I gotta talk to a pastor.  There's no pastor in Nicholls right now."  \par
\par
"Deem, I will have to report your patronage of this individual to the bishop.  This demonstates a singular lack of good judgment."\par
\par
"That cop is following us."  Deem looked past Whiggins out the back window.  Whiggins offered his hand and they shook hands. "I'm driving," Aaron said.  This was simply not happening. It could not be happening.  Perhaps they had some bleach at the church that Deem could disinfect himself with. There would be a car wash he could vacuum the back seat out with on the return trip north.  He would make Deem, then crushed with defeat, do the work.  \par
\par
"I am obligated," Whiggins said,"I'd like it if you would let me be your personal assistant."\par
\par
"I would like that, too," Deem said, and smiled.\par
\par
"Wholly inappropriate.  A personal assistant goes through selection, examination, training, and final evaluation and then is assigned to someone matching his skills. This is presumptuous and inappropriate, Mr. Whiggins - the candidate here is not the pastor and may not be here very much longer, not even past today. You both are making a huge, huge mistake. Take my word for it.  Deem, you had better tell him just to go. And regarding the cop - not a surprise.  Probably has nothing better to do. Well, there's the grocery on the left and a vacant block on your right.  Ahead is the church on your left and the old cemetery on your right. South of it is the new cemetery."\par
\par
"I haven't eaten in ever so long."  Whiggins held his hands to his stomach.  Aaron stopped the car. He pulled a five dollar bill out of his wallet and thrust it at Whiggins. "Here. There. The grocery. Food is there. Please, get yourself something to eat. And go somewhere and eat it. Please."  \par
\par
"Thank you kindly, sir," Whiggins said, and stepped out of the car.  A few of his flies did not leave with him, and now moved to the front seat.  Aaron waved his hand at the flies.  Whiggins smiled and waved back.  That was not the message he had intended to communicate. But he noted that Whiggins was armed, or at least had a holster like everyone in Nicholls.  What a horrible incident.  At least it was over. Nothing like that had ever happened to him before.  He had never even heard of that.  He would lock his car doors from now on. Always. Epper settlements were quiet, decent, respectable people full of well-mannered people.  Most towns were, also, at least the sections Aaron frequented. \par
\par
The street in front of the church was paved.  "This is Old 71.  And the only gas station in town is the Gas 'N' Grub - it's on the north side, where you used to come into town.  It was built I think in 1922 and was never redecorated.  They sell more whiskey than gas or grub, and you probably don't want their grub.  Probably the grub was bought in 1922. Mainly canned goods.  And cash only - no credit cards, no debit cards.  They didn't want a gas station near the exit because they didn't want people coming to Nicholls. It,  like everything else in Nicholls, is locally owned and only takes cash. The owner is rude, or at least rude to people from out of town.  Once he showed me his shotgun he keeps behind the counter.  I got the feeling he hated the idea of selling gasoline to a non-Marine. I've gassed up there only twice.  He told me he hoped there would not be a third time unless I planned on moving here, and I didn't look like a Marine to him, so it would be best if I forget about coming there.  And he has a sign that says "I shoot to kill drive-offs".  I think he means it.\par
\par
"Wow."\par
\par
"Bear in mind these elders you are meeting are all Nicholls ex-Marines.  They will tell you they are Marines and the phrase ex-Marine is ignorant.  Kitten Pfingster is the oldest living Marine in Nicholls, a world war two and Korea vet, and so Pastor Hartmann recruited him to be an elder. It would not surprise me if he asked you if you saw any Japanese on the drive down here. "\par
\par
"I see."\par
\par
"Tell him no. Nicholls is always a treat for me to visit."\par
\par
"I can tell."\par
 \par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 "This is the original 1868 church, as you can see from the cornerstone." He pointed, and there it was in prominent letters. "They meet back here now," Aaron explained. "Pastor Smit built a bigger church and tried to sell this one, but there were no takers. Pastor Smit was good. Then this church lost their building due to financial reasons - the bank took it - and they came back to their own old bulding." Deem said nothing. He looked ill.  Aaron hoped it was only nerves. \par

\pard\ltrpar\lang1033 The church was an old white clapboard church, so small it could have only a single aisle, the sort that are scattered across the American rural landscape: it could have been anywhere. It was brightly painted with new white paint, and had a peaked roof and sharp steeple that rose to where a cross shone in the sun, brightly polished as if hung between heaven and earth.  This side had stained glass windows on the top and a door on the bottom. "It's a trick of the eye, Deem. It looks dead flat around here but it's not.  The entrance around on the other side just has a couple of steps, but here you can walk out of the basement."\par
 \par
"It looks dead flat."\par
\par
"There are a lot of things around here that will fool your eye."  Aaron wondered if he himself meant a lot more by that remark than he realized.  He would have to take some time later and examine why he had said it. \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf1\strike\par
So there are two "ideal societies" here, one founded on Marine principles, the other on Epper.  Do they conflict?  Not really. \par
\par
Aaron told Deem one version of the legend of the treasure, and how there is also supposed to be a diamond, some say in Snake Woods.  He told of Simon Brot's death. \par
\par
\par
\lang9 Deem reflected to Aaron on that sequence in the beginning of Romans 5, though he was weak and had been emotionally down, he did not run on physical strength or emotional energy. He still, inwardly, rejoiced.\lang1033\par
\cf0\strike0\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9  \par

\pard\ltrpar Aaron gritted his teeth at the sound the wheels made as he started up again and turned onto the parking lot and carefully parked. All the gravel everywhere was something else he didn't like about Nicholls.  Gravel meant poverty, dust, ruts, potholes, but here it meant they were just too cheap to pave anything, to spend a penny beyond what was absolutely necessary. As they got out he noticed the gravel had been impeccably maintained, rolled solid without any holes or ruts.  \i  \i0 Aaron looked around at the five fullsized pickup trucks in the parking lot.  Each had a gun rack across the back of the cab. Variations on "MARINE" and the Eagle, Globe and Anchor were on every  truck. Five elders, five trucks.  Despite the water shortage, they were all newly washed.  He didn't want to know.\par
\lang1033\par
"You left the key in the ignition."\par
\par
"I know.  You do that in Nicholls."\par
\par
"Why?"\par
\par
Aaron shrugged. "God only knows.  City law. Some Marine thing. This is Nicholls.  I guess in case they need to move your car to let a tank through or use it as a barricade in a skirmish."\par
\par
"Don't cars get stolen?" Deem had a strange look, as if not sure if that was sarcasm. Aaron wasn't sure, either.  Sometimes he wasn't sure - he had to maintain a smooth, professional interior, but internally there were several of him, one of which was someone who hated Nicholls.  Another urged him to love these people.  He disliked being such a politician, as he called it, but it was also necessary.  Someone had to do the dirty work for the Lord, deal with the ugly parts, bad situations, fights, skirmishes and scandals that sometimes erupted.  And he alternately smoothed over situations, made problems disappear, calmed ruffled feathers, and resolved differences.  Usually he could maintain a cool, detached professional exterior.  Nicholls, however, got to him.  For one thing they didn't give a rip about a cool, detached professional exterior. He was something that he had no idea what they called it, but it was outside the camaraderie of the foxhole and the brotherhood of the Corps.  In a town where every male over the age of 22 was a member of the VFW he felt it sharply. \par
\par
"Not in Nicholls.  Not with everyone armed. I expect no car has ever been stolen. Trucks, either.  Few cars are here, as you perhaps noticed. And I learned a long time ago an automatic transmission is against the law.  They are all manual.  They passed a law for that, but not for street signs.  Welcome to Nicholls."\par
\par
Deem nodded.\par
\lang9\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Aaron checked his watch. He was only five minutes late. Between the wrong turn, that Whiggins character, and the cop, he had lost ten minutes. Now he looked at the church again, now a rather severe looking white clapboard building with a basement entrance on this side. They went down the steps to the basement door and the building seemed to lean over Deem, imposing itself on him, crushing him. Who are you, little man? Go away.  The main door was  on the other side.  He could see the church sign but it was facing away from him. The oven-heat was hitting them in the sun and Deem was covered in sweat by the time he got to the door.  It was newly painted and completely free of cobwebs.  The whole town, Aaron reflected, was overly clean. No chipped paint anywhere. No trash on the ground. Obsessively, compulsively, neurotically clean.  Aaron felt like a slob anytime he came to Nicholls.  It was just so perfect. He was not sweating but Deem sure was, shaking a little, too. "The spirit is willing but the flesh is weak," Deem muttered with a twisted smile, a  curled lip.  He looked upset.\f2\par
\f0 Aaron knocked on the immaculate door, wondering if they would wipe the grease off from his knuckles later. After a silent minute, in which Aaron fought the urge to simply turn around and leave as fast as possible,  Aaron opened it silently.\f2\par
\f0\lang1033 Deem lost his stomach contents right in the open door, splattering vomit on the newly scrubbed threshhold and the lower part of the door and the concrete walls. He turned to Aaron, vomit dripping off his chin. "The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak." Aaron was tempted to tell him he'd heard that already.  He staggered forward into \lang9 the cool darkness through the puddle.  The darkness was refreshing \lang1033 and the dry heaves subsided in a minute. "What's that smell?" someone asked from the dark interror.  "You've been puking?" Deem nodded.  Aaron decided that pretty much ended this interview. Aaron shut the door. He\lang9  stood back and motioned for Deem to go forward. He would observe.\f2\par
 \f0\lang1033\par

\pard\ltrpar\ul The Interview\ulnone   \par
\par
The flurry of voices from the darkness continued. Hey - you better clean that up.  That ends this right now. Disgusting.  Can't hold his lunch.  What is the matter with him. Do we need to interview further. Wasted enough time here today.  \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 "You Futz?" a gruff voice sitting somewhere in the shadows cut through the protesting voices, silencing them.  They have been waiting, these elders, and he was late. All that was in those two stacatto words.  You should be somewhere ten minutes early, Aaron recalled with a shock, here.   By Nicholl's time he was fifteen minutes late.  They were of the mindset, he recalled, that there was a lotta work a man could do in fifteen. Ruder'n all get out to keep someone waiting, let alone the elders whom he was meeting for a pastoral interview. Not a good start. Not at all.\par
That, also, was in those two words.\par
They didn't bother getting up. The nearest frowned when Deem extended his hand to shake.\par

\pard\ltrpar\lang1033 "Coffee," someone said.  Deem looked down at his hand, as if surprised that a cup of coffee was now in it. Over the acrid smell of vomit Aaron could smell the slightly-burned bitter coffee that for some reason was loved in Nicholls. Here and there were grey ceramic mugs embalzoned with USMC in red, or the globe and anchor, or MARINE and one that said PROPERTY OF MCRD PARRIS ISLAND.  Not a single styrofoam cup in Nicholls.  Deem's cup, Aaron noticed, was a dainty, feminine-looking tea cup. That was uncalled for.  There was Kitten Pfingster, the oldest Marine in Nicholls, staring off with a faraway look.  He was more often on a Pacific Island in the early 1940s these days than he was in the present. His eyes seemed to be scanning the opposite wall for possible Jap soldiers hidden in the cracks. Kitten was always on the alert, always on watch.  You did not touch him without warning, because his assumption, always, was any touch was from an infiltrator in his foxhole.  And he was armed, not just with a revolver but a Ka-Bar knife sharpened to perfection, seven inches of death in a sheath.  No one was going to try to take those away, Aaron thought.  People in Nicholls were very respectful of each other. All these elders were armed, every chamber loaded in every sidearm, full clips, and safety on.  Aaron had heard it was illegal in Nicholls for a weapon in public to not be ready to be fired.  But then he didn't really know - he mainly saw Nicholls through these elders.  When he came down here he came and went as soon as possible and he wondered if they were all like this. \par
\par
\lang9 "Yes, sir," Deem replied nervously.  Aaron noted that when he was nervous his voice went up. Aaron was suddenly struck at a gut level at the gulf between Deem and these Nicholls Marine elders.  They were aliens from different worlds making first contact, from  entirely different worlds, cultures, outlooks on life.  If you went to deepest darkest Borneo you would have to learn the language.  But learning theirs, even though he knew it was English, even though this was an Epper church and you'd think there was sufficient common ground, might be far harder.  The men stared at Deem's new suit, he stared at their short hair and their short beards, their overalls, their calloused, meaty, powerful hands, their eyes.  Some of those eyes said they had seen things they never, ever talked about, memories that they stuffed deep inside. Kitten in particular had been in combat in World War 2 and Korea, but the others were younger and shook their heads if you asked them.  Probably Korea.  Maybe Viet Nam.  Those hard eyes were not friendly in their examination of Deem Futz. It seemed to Aaron that they regarded Deem as they would someone who washed out of Boot Camp the first day, or worse.  Deem stood there patiently, not moving, simply waiting for questions.  Frowns were exchanged among them. They were solid, hardworking, strong, established people, all at least ten years older, if not twenty, than Deem. The normal age for an Epper to become an elder was sixy, but that was not always observed.  These were older, even though each looked like they could break Deem in half with one hand, even the ones who looked like they had passed the eighty year mark. And like they really didn't care whether they could break him.  He was irrelevant, except there he was being a nuisance. Somewhere in the silence, away in the dark depths of the church, was a tiny sound, either a clock ticking or an insect or water dripping - Aaron was not sure which - that normally you would never hear.  Only in awful silence do you hear such things. For Deem's sake, Aaron curled his toes up inside his shoes.  The bishop could not possibly have grasped how irreconcilable the differences were.  He now pitied Deem and wished he had not brought him into this, not for Aaron's own sake, now, but for Deem.  Here Aaron noted his personal sympathy rising beyond his professional detachment.  They were going to murder him. He was ashamed of himself for having wished this would happen.  He did not know that he could stomach watching this - he knew these men well enough.  It was likely they would make Deem break down and cry.  For all he knew, he, Aaron, would also be made to cry. \lang1033\par
\par
They watched silently as Deem did not realize the end of his tie had gone into the coffee until suddenly and awkardly he removed it and wrung out his tie in front of them.  They said nothing. Aaron saw it and a cold feeling went up his spine as he watched.  His stomach was already knotted.   He wondered when his headache would start. Deem of course was worse off.  The sooner this was over the better. Sandy Sands continued long, smooth strokes.  He was sharpening his Ka-Bar.  A little can of oil was on a piece of paper on the table in front of him.  He was using Deem's resume to blot oil.  Aaron never had liked these guys. \par
\par
"The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak," Deem said for the third time.  It did not go over well.  Their spirits were not willing that he was there, and their flesh was not weak. The sense of hostility went up a notch.  \par
\par
Deem found something to break the silence. "Mr. Muis told me you are ex-Marines.  My dad was in the army, just like you. So I understand soldiers." They curtly explained they were Marines, not ex-Marines, not soldiers, in the Corps, not the army.  "We got a winner here," someone said.  Aaron could not locate the source of that comment.\par
\cf1\lang9\par
\cf0 "Who is clerk of session now?" Aaron asked into the bleak silence.\par
\par
"Deacon Muis, you must know that.  You should also make sure your candidate arrives on time.  But we blame him, not you, for that.  I'm Sandy Sands. Clerk of Session.   Also here are Kitten Pfingster, Nathan Bread, Dennis Opp, Chips.  Mike Spinkster isn't here. We are down to this size because, well, the church isn't so big anymore.  It doesn't matter who's who because this interview is about over."  The others nodded, barely, at the mention of their names. \par
\lang1033\par
Besides the elders, in the back of the room an elderly woman was sitting quietly on a folding chair. When had she arrived?  Aaron was not sure. \par
\par
"Welcome," Sandy said.  But that was clearly only a formality.  Aaron felt his blood running cold.  His sharpening was more interesting than this candidate. Anyway that's where his eyes were. \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 "Thank you," Deem replied.\par
"Let's skip any more preliminaries," someone said.  There were murmurs of agreement.\lang1033\par

\pard\ltrpar "That's Mabel, our prayer warrior," Sandy Sands said, jerking a thumb over his shoulder in her direction without turning.  He pronounced 'prayer warrior' with a slight sneer.  She waved slightly, but oddly - not at Deem but as if someone else was there.  But there were only Deem and himself and the five elders - no one in the direction she waved.  Aaron thought anyone called a prayer warrior must be slightly screwy in the head anyway, and the other elders gave a slight smirk - obviously they had had dealiings with this Mabel before.  Just a crank like you find in some churches. There was another chair back there, not far from her, as if they were expecting someone else. Maybe Mike Spinkster.\par
\par
"I want a leader who can inspire me," Chips was saying,"I want someone I can follow into combat."\par
\par
"I think you mean spiritual combat," Dennis Opp said.\par
\par
"Whatever.  And you, Mr. Deem Futz, or whatever your name is, and what kind of a name is that anyway, you don't inspire me.  I don't think there is anything you can say that would change that. Bottom line, mister, is the bottom line. Pastor Smit was a highly decorated enlisted Marine of unquestioned honor and respect who went to seminary and returned as a Navy chaplain.  He served the Corps and then this church. We went looking for someone like him and found Pastor Hartmann-"\par
\par
"Which is exactly why we are looking for a non-Marine."\par
\par
"One mistake."   There was some agreement,"The individual, not the process," someone said.\par
\par
"There are no Navy chaplains retiring and looking. No Protestants, anyway."\par
\par
"Well, we aren't going to take a priest," someone said.  There was a snort.\par
\par
"So, Deacon Aaron Muis, why did you bring this specimen before us?"  Chips looked at Deem with undisguised contempt, from the vomit on his shoes to his damp tie and strangely unnoticable face. "Gaw, man. Why?" His sour look set on Aaron.  At least he was not sharpening a knife at the moment.  \par
\par
"The bishop thinks he would be a good fit."\par
\par
"He's new, after all. Does not know Nicholls."\par
\par
"He knows you well enough."\par
\par
"This Deem Futz is an insult. Take him away.  Please.  Just take him away."   Chips  made a shooing motion with his fingers, brushing him away. \par
\par
Sandy looked up from his knife for a moment at Deem. "I think I will ask one question, and then we will have formally conducted our interview, and this charade can be over.  Now, how in the world can you lead this church?  Think carefully before you answer."  People were already starting to get up to leave. Sandy put away his oil can.  He crumbled the resume into a ball and tossed it perfectly into a trash can some ten feet away. \par
\par
"Well," Deem said, "I would rather be an object of mercy than competent but condemned."\par
\par
"What's that?" It caught them off guard. Dennis Opp nodded slowly, but said nothing. He was younger, somewhere in his fifties or sixties, a retired officer.  He was respected outside Nicholls and had been a voice of reason at all times.  Perhaps he could talk to them. \par
\par
Deem repeated it. \par
\par
"I'm not sure what you are saying. Between merit and grace, we lean heavily towards merit. It's a Marine thing." someone told Deem. "You don't seem to measure up."\par
\par
"That is true.  If I pastor this church, it would be by the mercy of God and by His grace, not by my competence."\par
\par
"Your competence. There is nothing on your resume that says you have ever led anything.  No indication of competence anywhere, for any reason."\par
\par
"Yes, I would be trusting God, not myself," Deem said calmly. \par
\par
"Sounds like you have an underdeveloped sense of personal responsibility.  One day with a DI would straighten that out."\par
\par
"He would never make it into the Corps."\par
\par
"No.  Not Marine material."\par
\par
"Definitely not."  \par
\par
Dennis Opp had been taken aback more than the others.  He had a careful, thoughtful look about him now. "Mr. Futz, please repeat what you said."\par
\par
"I said I would rather be an object of mercy than competent but condemned."\par
\par
"Thank you.I can live with it.  Is that original?"\par
\par
"I don't know if it is original. You see -"\par
\par
"I don't want to waste any more time here," Kitten said abruptly. "What happened to Garrison?"  Garrison was an interim pastor, specializing in troubled churches and settlements.  \par
\par
"He's no longer interested."  Aaron told them,"I think he has heard too much about you, bluntly."\par
\par
"Well, we are blunt. People talk.  Sometimes -"\par
\par
"I would like to follow up with this candidate one on one," Denns Opp interrupted Kitten, one of the few who could, "I have some time tomorrow morning.  Would you be available?"\par
\par
Deem nodded. \par
\par
"Let's just get this over with." Several other voices cross-talked, expressing the same thing.  Sandy held up his hand.  "Dennis has the right to do so," he said.   \par
\ul\lang9\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone There was another awkward silence.  Aaron hoped it would end soon, and he could go off somewhere and be miserable.  What could he possibly say to Deem.  Or to the bishop?  This was even worse than he had imagined. \par
"Well, we have two other candidates to look at. You'll be preaching Sunday. By the way, with all respect, people are on time in this town. Best to remember that. With all due respect. By coming this late you answered our biggest question. All. Due. Respect. Sir." Sandy gave Deem a half-mocking sloppy salute.  There was nothing halfway about it, Aaron decided a momemt later. \par

\pard\ltrpar With that they explained, there  was work waiting.  Ignoring Deem, they each carefully said their goodbyes to Aaron. "Make sure he cleans up that vomit."  They clumped up the front steps, pointedly looking at and then avoiding the superdisgustingly filthy civilian defiled basement entryway.  \par
\par
"You'll find cleaning supplies in a closet here - somewhere in the basement.  Where, I don't know.  But anyplace this clean has got to have at least one cleaning closet," Aaron told his candidate. "And they want it Marine-clean.  Like your grandmother could eat off of it.  Clean yourself up, too, and then explore the building. Maybe it would help you understand these people better. I'd like to speak to those guys before they leave." Aaron carefull stepped across the vomit and headed toward the parking lot.\par
\lang1033\par
\ul Aaron and the Elders\par
\par
\ulnone "Gentlemen," Aaron called.  All five looked annoyed. \par
\par
"We were going to call the bishop and then he would talk to you," Sandy said.\par
\par
"If you have a problem with me, take it up with me."\par
\par
"Fair enough.  I suppose you're going to tell us don't blame you, the bishop put you up to this?"  They were now in a circle, arms crossed, facing him.  Kitten seemed to be  checking the roofs for snipers, but the other four were glaring at him.\par
\par
"The bishop did ask me to bring this candidate here,yes."\par
\par
"And what do you think of him, personally?"\par
              \par
"That is not a valid question - you know that."\par
\par
\line "Well you have an opinion." "You're not that hard to read."\par
\par
\lang9 "He called us \i soldiers\i0 . You should have prepped him. We are Marines. That is enough to sink him right there." The others nodded.\par
\par
"You people wanted another retired Navy chaplain.  Well, they don't want to touch Nicholls."\par
\par
"Why not?"\par
\par
"That should be obvious."  Aaron could tell from their faces it wasn't. "Obvious," he repeated.\par
\par
"Where's Mike? Anyone hear from him?"\par
\par
"I'm trying to get ahold of Spinkster.  I know what he said about Deem from his resume. I figure he just gave up on this church - he wasn't there Sunday, either. He hasn't made church or any of our meetings in over a month now."\par
\par
"After one-fifty years here you can't just give up on this church. A lot of history."\par
\par
"Many people have."  It was painfully true. "Sad to lose Mikee Spinkster. He was a pillar here."\par
\par
"Yep. Despite all the fireworks between him and Hartmann."\par
\par
"Mike turned out to be right."  There were murmurs of agreement and nods.  Sore subject. Everyone wanted to move on.  \par
\par
"I don't coach candidates," Aaron stated, more defensive in tone than he liked,"Let me respond to that."\par
\par
"You didn't coach us.  Let us respond to that."\par
\par
"Not my job, and you know it, or should.  Gentlemen, my job was to see how you interact with the candidate, and vice versa.  Not to try and make things nice. I'm not going to play that game."\par
\par
Aaron saw Whiggins sitting in the back seat of the car.  Spread out around him was a loaf of bread, lettuce, slices of tomato, cheese, and mustard and a bag of apples.  There was a quart of milk on the gravel beside the open door. \par
\par
Deem was still inside the church.  "You -" he started, but the elders caught up to him in the ten feet Aaron had just moved.\par
\par
"Where we going now?" Whiggins asked.  But they ignored him.\par
\par
"This guy is a non-starter.  That is what we are going to tell you. Send him back to wherever he came from."\par
\par
"You talking about me?" Whiggins demanded.  He got up and joined the group.\par
\par
"No, we are not. You are not part of this discussion. Please go sit down."\par
\par
"I want to put my part in for the new guy."\par
\par
"You've known him five minutes or less.  A three block car ride and your are an expert."\par
\par
"Fifty dollars says you wind up with him as pastor. And you like it."\par
\par
"You don't have fifty dollars."\par
\par
Whiggins counted out change. "All right. Forty nine cents."  He was made to go back to the car and sit down.\par
\par
"I've got his back, now. You remember that."  He waved his finger at them.  They ignored him. \par
\par
"The bishop thinks he is a good choice here."\par
\par
"We don't."\par
\par
"What did you expect?  I remember you people saying you needed to get away from the Marine thing, that Hartmann had just made everything worse.  So here is a non-Marine candidate, and what do you do?"\par
\par
"We don't like him."\par
\par
"You don't like him. You don't like him.  You don't like him.  You didn't even really interview him.  There is enough bad blood between you and the presbytery right now that if I go up there and tell them what you did today, I don't know if you will ever get another candidate.  Certainly not a Marine. Maybe someone worse than Deem Futz."\par
\par
"Is that possible? I mean, than Deem Futz?"\par
\par
"You had Hartmann."  They looked at each other. "Tell you what.  Give him a few days. Get to know him. Like Elder Opp said, let him preach Sunday.  See what you think.  And if you don't like him then, fair enough.  But kicking him out after an interview like that is an insult, not only to him, but to the bishop, and so to the presbytery and to the church as a whole.  To God Himself.  And that is how the presbytery will see it. And you are supposed to be stewards of the house of God. I don't thnik you want that. Accountability on all levels.  You will have to answer for this, not just to me but to a lot of people."  Aaron wondered what in the world prompted him to say this.  He would much rather have shoved Deem in the trunk of his car and headed north. That way he would not have to look at him. Through him in his vomit-soaked, coffee-soaked self. Several years earlier Aaron had had to ferry a rejected young candidate from a settlement back to Kansas City, and he had whined the whole way. No surprise that he had been rejected.  The man had never gotten a pulpit, and was doing something somewhere.  Aaron had been told, but he could not recall.  Did Deem whine? Some were silent.  Aaron had seen all kinds.\par
\par
"No, we don't."  This was Dennis Opp, retired Marine Corps judge advocate, now serving as a county judge on a part-time, as needed basis.  "You are right.  We have not really scoped this candidate out. Tell you what, let's each talk to him separately, at length, and see what we think one on one.  Let him preach Sunday.  Now Kitten, I know that you have voiced the most opposition to him." Kitten nodded. "Let him stay at your house.  See what yiou think."  Kitten frowned, his face turning red with anger, but he mastered it and nodded. "We will each take turns interviewing him and get together Monday morning, after his sermon Sunday has a chance to settle and we have heard from a few people about it."\par
\par
"I don't want him at my house," Chips said softly. He got glances and shrugged.\par
\par
That sounded fair to everyone.  Dennis Opp had been an elder when Pastor Smit had been here.  He, Sandy Sands and Mike Spinkster had all been there and were still elders. Three of the five could be counted on to give a fair opinion.  Kitten would as always go his own way. Nathan Bread was the wild card.  He had come on the board with Hartmann here but also always went his own way.  He was an enigma to Aaron, who prided himself on his ability to read people.  Somewhere behind that expressionless face wheels were turning, and he would come out with an unexpected insight. He seldom spoke, except for the sometimes sharp mark of wit or insight.  He would give Deem a fair hearing.  That was four, then, of the five. Chips had been Hartmann's choice and had always thought Hartmann had done a fine job, even now.  He would have kept Hartmann on. \par
\par
"Is he the only candidate?" Kitten asked.  And here Aaron had thought the conversation over.\par
\par
"No. There are two others." Hadn't he mentioned this already? \par
\par
"How about if we meet the others and just say no to Deem."\par
\par
"We just went over that, didn't we?"\par
\par
"I say stick it to the bishop and send him back."\par
\par
"Kitten, no. We already went over why we can't do that."\par
\par
"I will tell you one thing that I think you have missed about this candidate," Aaron said, wondering why he was saying it, wondering why, suddenly, he was taking Deem's side when it was so easy to just walk away.  "\lang1033 Deem really has something that you should admire, endurance, and there is strength in his weakness.  That should give you  something to think about. He's overcome a lot to make it this far.  That is why the bishop backs him.  He has a lot of perseverance."\par
\par
"We are into endurance. Good point.  The gaps in his transcript aren't that he was dilatory."  This was Dennis Opp, considering both sides of everything carefully.  Dennis had been an elder when Pastor Smit was still alive, and knew his stuff, was respected nationally even.  He was on the seminary board, perhaps he even knew of some of Deem's travails better than Aaron did.  So why was he favoring Deem?  What was Aaron missing?  He wondered. Maybe there was more weight to what he had said than he realized and the judge saw it. Aaron found himself saying, "No, judge.  You can ask him about that.  He overcame things to make it through seminary.  A lot like the apostle Paul."  Come on, Aaron, he told himself. That's too much.\par
\par
"He's single.  Whoever heard of a single pastor? Is this some papist innovation?"\par
\par
"He had a girlfriend named Sarah.  When she found out he wanted to be a pastor, she dropped him.  He's been too busy since to get one. Or a wife."\par
\par
"If God wants him to have a wife, He will issue him one." This was Nathan Bread.\par
\par
"Thank you, Chesty Puller," Dennis Opp said.\par
\par
"Why doesn't the bishop come down here and explain to us why we should invite this guy to pastor us?"\par
\par
"He sent me."\par
\par
"So defend the guy."\par
\par
"Let me lay it out for you.  One. You guys really raised a stink about getting rid of Pastor Hartmann.  If there was a way to do it to irritate everyone, you found it. Now you want a golden pastor?  We will help you, but there are limits people are setting. Secondly, this is a town church but it is the size of a settlement, and the church itself is small and might fold.  You cannot support a full-time pastor, which means you get a subsidy.  People up in the presbytery are doubtful that is worthwhile.  Many people favor just letting this church fold.  Scatter the people.  Go elsewhere.  The bishop is not in favor of that.  He is in favor of getting the best pastor he can find.  He was in Michigan when Deem was in seminary - one of the first things he had to deal with when he came was the business with Hartmann, you will recall - and Deem made an impression on him as someone who would not give up.  That is a primary need here. Now, I would suggest you walk through the interview process, as stated.  You are not going to attract a better graduate pastor, nor an experienced pastor.  That is the bottom line.  The bishop found only three people willing to come here.  Of those, Deem is his top candidate.  You will like the other two even less.  So we are expecting you to reject all three because you are too picky.  You are regarded as uncooperative, among other things.  Simple to just make this Nicholls church go away.  It's a shame, but the bishop is rooting for you."\par
\par
"By insulting us with this candidate?"\par
\par
"By providing the best candidate he can find. You are not exactly the best-thought-of or most glamourous church in the world. I'd say, to be blunt, you are at the bottom."\par
\par
"You think he has what it takes to pull this church together again?"\par
\par
"No, but God does.  He may be the instrument the Lord has chosen."\par
\par
"There's humility for you."\par
\par
"They are still unhappy about us getting rid of Hartmann."\par
\par
"The church may close if we install this Deem fellow."\par
\par
"It may close anyway."\par
\par
"There is the Ranch."\par
\par
"Bunch of torn-up trailers with poor old people, that's all there is." Sandy looked up sharply at the speaker, walked out of the circle and came back a moment later.\par
"They passed their peak decades ago.  Probably worse than the trailer court.  Johnson probably bought 'em out and is doing God knows what out there.  If it weren't for Kikker the whole place would be deserted again.  No. The church over in Clinton or the one in Grandview. Nevada is too far.  We might as well close the doors if either of these other two candidates is no good."\par
\par
"It's a shame - the whole thing.  Probably Deem Fuzz is the best of the three.  That is a shame. It iused to be that we got good candidates.  That's before we ticked everybody off - the bishop AND the presbytery."\par
\par
"Let me look at that." Dennis gestured to the papers under Aaron's arm.  He'd gathered the resume and application copies the elders had left, including the wadded up one in the trash.\par
\par
"Deem has unusual initiative, enthusiasm, and endurance it says on this reference."\par
\par
"I didn't see that in the interview. What fool wrote that about him?"\par
\par
"He is now the bishop."\par
\par
"I fond  \lang9 all three singularly lacking in him from the interview."\par
\par
"That wasn't really an interview," Dennis said. \par
\par
\cf1\lang1033\par
\par
\strike Kitten is the gung-hoingest Marine, Nathan is more thoughtful, Dennis a judge and retired Marine officer having served in the Marine justice system, Mike ??? Chips a farmer with theological bent, Sandy Sands ex-Ranch ex-Marine. \strike0\par
\par
\cf0\par
\ul Deem Prayed\ulnone  \par
\par
Deem searched the church basement for the cleaning closet.  T\lang9 he basement doubled as a fellowship hall, where he was now, and currently had folding tables and folding chairs set up in neat, orderly, overly precise rows.  There were little marks on the floor where the table corners should go, he noted. It was likely surveying equipment had been used to get them exact, and the marks were identical in length and direction. Eppers tended to be excessively and obsessively concerned with detail, but this went beyond Deem's experience.  The mop closet, with the stenciled "MOP CLOSET Authorized Personnel Only" on the door in red,  held the water heater and furnace, and a sink with the coffee maker and supplies, but no mop or cleaning supplies.  The mop and bucket were in a corner of the smallrestroom, standing attention next to a rigorously ordered metal shelf with cleaning supplies laid out precisely, everything immaculately scrubbed and clean. There was a large locked closet that said "DECORATIONS" on its sign, and "DECORATING COMMITTEE ONLY" in stenciled letters. Upstairs was the sanctuary. No office. No nursery. But everything was scrubbed to an inch of its life.  \par
\par
The foyer was the width of the building, about ten feet or so wide.  It was completely bare.  One said held the door to the outside, the other to the sanctuary.  He debated with himself - would he really want to go into a sanctuary of a church that would never be his - like he was so close, but so far away.  It would be easier to stay out, to never know what it looked like, to go out the door and never look back.  He put his hand on the door knob and stopped.  He turned around and walked into the sanctuary instead.\par
\par
"Meet Every Challenge With Your All," read one banner. Another, "Be Strong and Very Courageous, for the Lord Your God is with You Wherever You Go - Josh 1:9" read another, and "Suffer Hardship with Me as a Good Marine of Christ Jesus 2 Tim 2:3".  There was that quiet sadness again.  "Greater Love Has No Man Than This,That He Lay His Life Down For His Friends John 15:13." \lang1033\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 He had an eerie feeling of being quietly, patiently, lovingly watched.   Suddenly the walls were covered with pictures of young men in uniform, some in groups of twenty or so, some staring out, with the US flag in the background.  There were little labels on the pictures. "We finished our race. We gave our all. Will You?" he could read in the eyes of Edmund Spence, Cpl USMC, 1900-1918 KIA. There was a picture of a couple, smiling, in civilian clothing , against a tropical background, but instead of the US flag was a white flag with a blue cross on it. 'John and Angela Bourne, Missionaries 2015, KIA".  He remembered that incident as it had happened while he was at sem: they had been taken hostage on the mission field and killed. KIA, then, was 'Killed in Action'.   This church had paid in blood for its right to exist. This town was - well, he, Deem Futz was first of all unworthy to be here, but this answered something in him that this church, this town, was really alien to him, and there was no way he could ever measure up or even understand them.  There were other pictures of missionaries, other military pictures.  The walls were covered with them, all of them looking out, the missionaries with smiling, relaxed faces.  All of them had the dates completed.  All were KIA or MIA.  Not Momma Mia. Missing in Action?  He could hear soft, music playing.  But he was alone.  \par
He sat down, three pews back from the front,, in the silent church, in the stillness.  In the remote past, he remembered, he had powerfully experienced the presence of God in a silent church. But now waves of feeling from his youth were rising, when he had read too much science fiction. The cold, hard, uncaring vacuum of space. The wheeling, uncaring stars. The cosmic emptiness. The lack of meaning of life.  Futility. All was vanity. What meaning could any of this have?  What purpose? What goal was there that was worth pursuing? What treasure besides a God who was silent and absent? As a deep pants for water so my heart yearns for Thee, O God, he prayed. Why would men replace heaven with a cold hardness of space, and exchange God who loved them for an apathetic cosmos that woud indifferently crush them? Why do people turn from Him Who will not turn from them? And yet, how far, how far off God could seem, so far away. God I know you care. How about a little in the feelings, in the perception, in my mundane reality?\par
"Blessed are those who do not see, and yet believe."  he heard himself saying.\par
Silence.  Outside even the crickets had given it up.  He looked up.  The pictures were gone.  He looked at every wall. No pictures.  It had been so real, so moving, so true.  The music was gone.  There was a deep, deep silence, a depth that ended so far down that it was beyond his perception, but he knew there was a power and a will there that held the universe together. Strange that he should think such things.  He was not prone to visions or hallucinations.  Perhaps he was still ill, or the stress of the interview was getting to him.  He breathed slowly in the silence, praying quietly. \par
The church door opened and there were footsteps.  Someone was entering the church. He really wanted to be alone just now.  Alone with his misery and the fact that God was silent and seemed to have abandoned him. He would get over it, someday. He fought some bitter feelings.  How could he argue that God had abandoned him?  Yet there was the hard cold fact of that interview, of there being absolutely no prospects.  This was the edge of the cliff. Past here he did not know what he would do.  This was the end of hope, and the only thing past here was an abyss of madness, hopelessness and despair.  Would he fall in? \par
The footsteps came closer .It did not sound like Aaron. He pretended not to hear them.  He became aware they had stopped at the end of the pew he was in. Someone was standing there. He turned and looked.\par
It was the  elder, the one with the longer hair and the shorter beard and the kind eyes, the one Mabel had waved to when he came in.  They were the kindest and gentlest eyes Deem had ever seen. He felt like he had known this man a long time, although he could not place him.  By bearing he was clearly an elder.  He could be nothing else. \par
"Mind if  I join you?"\par
Deem beckoned with his hand, not trusting his powers of speech, and turned to face forward. again.  The elder sat as if he had made a calculation as to how close he could sit to Deem that Deem would neither feel like his own personal space was being violated or that the elder was too far away.\par
Neither said anything.  But Deem could hear the elder breathing. It was a soothing, regular, sure thing, like it had begun before the foundation of the world and would go on afterward: confident, enduring.  An easy and a light breathing.  Nothing would every be too hard for it. Ever.  There was a strength in it.  The man would not leave and Deem did not really want him to. He found he was glad he was there.\par
It was an odd thing, this.  It was like this living, breathing, warm human being sitting within arm's reach, by his very presence, made all the thoughts of isolation and abandonment and the cold hard emptiness vanish, run away and hide.  There was meaning and purpose and a charity and a joy and a laughter behind the silence of the universe. It wa silent, he thought, because it was trying not to laugh.  Was he quoting Chesterton? Not sure. He had a hunger for God because God had made him hungry for God, because God intended to fulfill that hunger and not just frustrate him.  There was a purpose.  It was not chasing rainbows in search of a pot of gold at the end.  It was the rainbow as God's promise, and God was capable of fulfilling the promise, and would.  How dry he had been.  Now, not so dry. There was reason for hope, and so there was hope.  Whether he got this position or not, life would go on. God was still in control.  If he wanted Deem to have a suburban DC church, he would get one. Deem said to himself that God's plan was the best and such a church would just be rubbish if it was not what God wanted.  All things were behind him. Press on. \par
It was like he had had an enormous bundle tied to his back - his past - and he cut the ropes. It slid off into the past, or down into that abyss that had been open before him.  It tumbled down there, falling, growing smaller, away, away, away, down and down.  That was then. This was now.  There was a future, though he did not see it or know it.  He could go on.  He sat there, happier than he had been in a long time, for several minutes.\par
As they sat there, silent, Deem felt encouraged. He was not alone. He turned to say something to the elder about how he appreciated him being there.\par
He WAS alone.  How or when the man had left, Deem did not know. He must have either been concentrating or asleep.  Odd, that.  But he left behind a different way of looking at things, something that Deem could go on with. Now it was like he had long ago been at the end of a rope and had let go. Deem felt, oddly, like he had been caught. \par
Deem stayed some minutes, hoping the elder would return.  He did not.\par
He looked at the pictures looking at him. As he sat in the presence of God and this cloud of witnesses he felt himself hardening, rising to the challenge. Determination rose in him to do this, to not walk away defeated. How could he, after this?  He was no longer unable to win. He was only able to win. A strange thought, a strange feeling, a turning point. He knew things would be different.  Life had changed.  Not only "going on" but living.  He felt like he could breathe again, like joy was possible, like he could sing. Really, this little town and its church, its proud elders, were a speck of dust in God's sight, a drop in the bucket.  He, Deem Futz, was beloved of God.  God was in control. All things would work out.\par
Oh, the Deep Deep Love of Jesus.  Number 71 in the hymnal.  There was one in the pew-rack in front of him.  He opened it to Number 71, and a small piece of paper fell out and onto the floor.  It said "1 Sam 16:7 ".  He could not recall the verse, so he looked it up.  "What do you know," he said to himself, "What do you know."\par
Deem looked around the sanctuary one last time and left.  It was likely he would never return, but he would always remember this place.  And he was preaching Sunday, so he would be back.  To his surprise there was no lock on the front door.   \par

\pard\ltrpar\lang1033\par
\par
\ul Outside the Church\ulnone\par
 Deem interacts with a few people outside the church.  Aaron notices Deem \tab has a real ability to enter into someone else's emotional world and they feel it, \tab that he is on their side.  Unusually so.\par
\par
A man in a uniform that closely resembled Marine blues got out of a jeep and walked over to Deem. He handed him an envelope and waited while Deem opened it.\par
\par
In a beautifully clear script Deem read:\par
\par
" Pastoral Candidate Phutz, Mayor Southwark requests the pleasure of your presence in his office as soon as is reasonable today.  He would like to meet you.  Cordially, Administrative Assistant A. Tliel."\par
\par
"Tliel?" Deem asked.\par
"Pronounced Tuliel", the man in uniform said.\par
\par
"Amy Tliel, the mayor's administrative assistant and personal whore," Kitten said. Deem looked startled. The man in uniform said nothing.\par
\par
"I will be happy to come," Deem broke the silence.  \par
\par
Deem, Aaron and Kitten met the Mayor in his office.  Mayor Southwark was glad to meet him and hopes things will be smooth between the City and the new pastor, and they can work together on the identified biggest problems in town, such as homeless people drifting in from the trailer court and people not physically fit. Also people were violating the do not wash order on vehicles - here he looked at Kitten - and he wass sure there are other problems that the good pastor can address.  Kitten tells him to go to hell for no reason that Deem or Aaron can see. Where did Deem serve? The mayor was taken aback at the answer but recovered.  "I am sure you will be an improvement over Pastor Hartmann.  No cooperation out of that man." Kitten replied that Southwark had not deserved any cooperation.  The mayor had pressing duties, and it had been a pleasure, and they were shown the door.  \par
\par
"Baboon in Johnson's pay," muttered Kitten.  Deem looked at him curiously.  Aaron withheld comment, per protocol.  \par
\par
"Who is Johnson?" Deem asked.\par
\par
"He is that big swaggering banker up in Harrisonville.  He bankrolled the mayor's campaign and has bought a lot of prroperty around town.  He even bought Nicholls Bank."  Amy was watching this from her desk. "Tell you later," Kitten ended.  "If Johnson wasn't so stingy, he would get Southwark a higher grade than you," he told the girl.  She shrugged. \par
\par
"Listen, Deem, I need to make a phone call to the bishop.  I'll let you out here and you can explore the town.  I'm sorry, but that phone call must be private."  Deem understood, and understood what would be said.  "I'll pick you up in front of Butler's in an hour, okay?"  Deem nodded.\par
\par
Deem had a run in with Crazy Harry.  He met Nathan Bread in Butler's, who kept Crazy Harry from picking another fight.  Afterwards Deem wandered down to the courthouse square.  He looked at the Memorial to the War Dead, Classes of 1940-1945, reads the names, wonders who they were, what they would have been like if they had lived.  In another corner was a memorial to the Dead of the Great War, and then another for the Korean Conflict, and one for Viet Nam.  "James Pfingster" he read. Any relation to Kitten? The square was dominated by the Bank of Nicholls on one side, some law firms, a restaurant that looked a bit similar to Butler's - \i La Grenouille Engraiss\'e9e, \i0 but the awnings were finer and there was gold-looking trim.  Plus, the door framed a cross between a ma\'eetre d' and a special forces warrior - buzz cut, white towel over arm, white shirt and bow-tie, holster on his right hip and a sheath for a knife on the left, sheath sticking out of his highly polished right boot, huge muscles protruding from his rolled-up sleeves.  Law offices, a title office, a bail bond service, a barber shop and a few other offices completed the square around the limestone courthouse, two stories tall with  basement window peeking over the grass.  \par
\par
\ul Car ride to Pfingsters'\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\lang9 They drove northnpast the end of the brick-fronted buildings on Main, past a block of two-story mammoth frame houses, each fronted by small, stunted looking trees with shriveled leaves and carefully tended but dried grass - there was a no-watering order on -and turned right.  There was no sign, but this was Henderson.   After a few block  of these houses with wide porches all around and trees and each with a garden, and most with a US flag and a USMC flag proudly flying, the sound rose of an angry old man yelling at people. "Get off my lawn!" he was yelling, with various obscenities thrown in.  \par
"Who is that, do you know?"  Deem asked.\par
"That is Kitten Pfingster. You're staying there tonight."  Aaron smiled to himself.\par
"He's a good friend to any Marine," Whiggins said from the backseat.\par
"I'm not a Marine," Deem calmly replied.\par
"Oh," Whiggins said,"Oh."\par
The yelling got louder as they came closer to the house.  \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\ul\lang1033\par
\ulnone Deem tells Aaron of the elder. Aaron wonders if Deem is losing it, on top of everything else.  Aaron cautions him that Kitten Pfingster wants a close look at him alone, and is the elder most opposed to Deem. Win him over, and he is in.  Otherwise, no.\par
\par
On the way to Pfingsters', where he would be staying - there were no hotels in Nicholls - \par
Deem tolf Aaron about the elder - one that Aaron did not see in the initial meeting, the one who later came into the sanctuary.  Aaron was concerned that Deem is hallucinating.  Aaron observes and hears about various people's reactions to Deem.  Aaron leaves with the bishop Sunday afternoon.  Deem moves from being a complete stranger to barely being tolerated. Not Marine material. Suffering is not central to the Christian walk, they tell him: victory over the enemy is. \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Aaron drove alone back to the bishop's residence.  "Deem really does have perseverance. I was not wrong about that." He thought about how he had arrived, half-starved and sick, three weeks earlier, and they had had to nurse Deem back to health. Somehow he had become best buddies with half the staff at the bishopiric, something that Aaron had missed until right now.  Deem had had every kind of illness and financial and legal trouble in seminary, including an arrest (it dragged on for two years, at the end of which Deem was cleared), suspension due to non-payment of tuition, academic suspension, both suspensions at the same time, a cursory investigation by the Committee on Doctrinal Purity, twenty interviews with churches and settlements that he got passed over on, and some had gone so badly the Placement Office had received angry letters about why Deem had been sent in the first place. But it was never character, always circumstances.  Deem had graduated the "goat" in his class - actually two classes later than normal due to his difficulties - and had had to repeat several courses.  He was no shining star. He had no spectacular gifts.  He was almost invisible in a crowd.\par
\par
Aaron recalled when he had met Deem at the bus station.  Aaron had stood there, looking for him with a sign, and he was startled when he heard his name mentioned. He looked around, and suddenly he realized Deem was standing right in front of him but he had not noticed he was there.  And this was going to be the leader the Marines here would follow?  And was he delusional on top of it?\par
\par
"God have mercy on him.  God have mercy on me in this situation.  God have mercy on the church in Nicholls." So he prayed all the way back to the bishopric, where he would make his report.  There would be none of the 'I told you so' he had thought he would be delivering.  So what would he say?  He gave that some thought and mixed it with prayer as he passed through Cass County back to the office in KC.\par
\par
 Deem was a 'man of sorrows and acquainted with grief'. How had Aaron not seen that?   Had God abandoned Deem? From what he had said, he regarded suffering as a gift, but it is, after all, suffering.  He was no masochist and did not regard God as a sadist. Life can be defined as how we respond to suffering - with an open, grateful heart or bitterness. He had chosen gratitude as the only response he saw open to the Christian.  Deem understood his significance was from God not man.  When that is all you have, you must see that.  God had stripped away everything non-essential from this man, including health, wealth, respect, leadership gifts, prominence, even height.  This Deem Futz was no shallow, fly-by night, health-and-wealth Christian.  He had gone into the depths and mysteries of God, and Aaron had missed that.  Likely the bishop had seen it.  In the depths of this man there was a deep connection with God that could be seen for those with eyes to see it.     \par
\par
Despite everything, Deem rejected the idea that God was hidden or silent, a sometimes flowing stream.  God is always there, always supporting, always trustworthy. Aaron was surprised that Deem was not an advocate of the Hidden God Who reveals Himself episodically, whether on Sinai, at the Jordan, Calvary, or the Second Coming. That was the official position of the denomination at present, that we wait for those great movements of God, outside of which God does not move, speak or act, although it was acceptable to veer off that position somewhat.  Deem maintained that God is always revealing Himself, for those who have eyes to see. For that reason he could not be a cessationist.  Aaron was surprised the CDP didn't go after him. Deem had replied that they didn't think he would go anywhere and he wasn't worth bothering with. He'd been told that, bluntly, by someone on the CDP. They had bigger, actual fish to fry.  He wasn't worth it. He'd shrugged.  He had consigned his life to God, and whatever happened, happened.  Aaron didn't think he had ever before seen such brokenness and surrender in anyone, and it was in an off-hand way.  You didn't notice it. Deem did not trumpet it or make sure you knew about it.  He would not tell you, would not bother telling you about it. You would have to listen and look for it, and like the man himself, you might overlook it. \par
\par
Who was this Deem Futz?  How could he lead a church full of gung ho Marines?\par
\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 3 Deem at Pfingsters\ulnone\b0 '\par
\par
When Aaron pulled up, Kitten, ramrod straight and angry, was barking at people to get off his lawn. He sourly looked at Aaron and more so at Deem after they pull in.  There was a small crowd that Kitten dispersed because the show is over and it is too hot.  They had been on his lawn when he had come back.  \par
\par
"Whiggins," he said, and broke out in a smile."Good to see you."\par
\par
"Good to see you too, Sarge.  Didn't know you were in on this."\par
\par
"Yeah.  Pastor Hartmann made me an elder. Didncha know? I'm the oldest living Marine in this town, so I gotta be an elder. So I was made elder.  And now this candidate is staying with me tonight."\par
\par
"Is he? He's a fine man, Kitten."  \par
\par
"I'll be the judge of that."\par
\par
"You know him?" Aaron was aghast.\par
\par
"This is a small town," Kitten responded. "Everyone knows everyone. And everyone's business.  This whoreson is Whiggins. Now, he is staying with me. Ain't that right?"\par
\par
"Thanks, Kitten. Don't mind it. I'm Deem's personal assistant."\par
\par
"Deem, your stock just went up a bunch with me on that.  Whiggins, straighten him out."  This was absolutely and completely meaningless in Aaron's ears. \par
\par
"Aye-aye sir."\par
\par
"Sarge and my grandfather served together."\par
\par
"Fox hole buddies on Okinawa. His grandfather and me.  I kept that young poorly trained Marine alive.  Better than I could do for a lot of guys.  They would show up and die before we got to know them - a lot of them were just rushed through boot camp and shipped out, because the Corps needed bodies, and they got bodies out of it, grave yards full of bodies."\par
\par
"Whenever it got cold and rainy, Granddad could not sleep, and Sarge here would take him out and they would sit in a muddy hole."\par
\par
"Just like Okinawa.  That was the only place he could sleep sometimes."\par
\par
"And you both got pneumonia."\par
\par
"Yeah. Only he didn't make it, and I did, and I'm older.  Some things you just don't need the reason for.  I knew your dad, a good egg, and then there is you. What happened to your bearing? You're a Marine, and look at you!"\par
\par
"Yeah, I lost it.  I came back and found out about my family."\par
\par
"They never told you? Those Rear Echelon Mother - figures?"\par
\par
"No. We were out taking a long walk in the sand at the time. When we came in from the cold, I wasn't where I started from.  News didn't reach us.  And then I got sent home, and them dead."\par
\par
"Sorry, son."\par
\par
"I talked to Pastor Hartmann.  He was no help.  So I went downhill. But now I am personal servant to Pastor Deem Futz. Life will be better."\par
\par
"You are, are you? We'll see about that. Now go inside and get yourself a shower and a shave. We'll burn those clothes.  Leave them on the back porch. No, don't go into the house until you strip.  I'll find you some clothes. Then go get that hair dealt with. Shower's upstairs. "\par
"One more thing. You're dealing with Christians here. God already passed faith out to us and it is your turn. I got Jesus back in the 50s," Kitten said,""What that Jesus needed was some properly trained Marines.  That cross business would never have happened if He had a rifle squad, any rifle squad in the Corps," Kitten said. "But you got to admire a guy who rises from the dead.  It's like he's God or something. Now He is commander in chief of the armies of God! General Jesus, that's what I like to call Him. He's going to come back and clean out the enemy positions with overpowering firepower. He is a combat officer AND He will get you an in with God on a personal basiis, cause of a family connection there.  It's all on the up and up because he's also a judge advocate and he will straighten things out between you and God, yes sir indeed, and declare you INNOCENT on all charges.  You just salute him and say yes sir to whatever he orders and he will get your butt out of hell if he has to. He's the DI in the sky. You understand?"\par
\par
"Wow," Whiggins said,"I never heard it put like that. Receiving faith, now, sir," Whiggins called, from the other side of the house. \par
\par
"Me neither," Aaron said. When this candidate business was over, maybe he would go on a retreat.  A long retreat somewhere with lots of trees. Birds.  Calm streams of water. He thought of Pickle Creek State Park.  Somewhere like that. \par
\par
"That's the way to do evangelism," Kitten said, teaching these kids,"Order 'em to believe. They will. Works everytime."\cf1\par
\cf0\par
\par
Deem barely made it up the stairs to his barracks-style two bunk room with an air conditioner in the window, decorated with a map of Pelileu and a medals display. Whiggins was sleeping in the basement, so Deem had the room to himself.  Kitten informed him Deem would be down for supper, and Kitten showed him where he himself had landed on the map, and where he thought he was when they took him off the battlefield wounded - unconcious at the time - and he had found himself on a hospital ship.  Kitten told how he had managed to shoot his mouth off and stay in combat after almost everyone else had been rotated off.  And then he had gone to China.  Didn't do much between the end of that and Korea. He'd actually managed to retire as a Marine.  Drove a truck for years for different companies.  Deem quickly saw that Kitten was not living in the present.  He was the last alive, old and his friends were all dead.  One son is buried in Nicholls Cemetary, killed in Nam many years ago now.  He had other sons, all Marine vets. Fine men. Good eggs.  Deem noted he was fond of saying someone is a good egg.  He'd never written a book, unlike that Sledge or that Leckie fellow, although he'd read part of both but could not finish.  Too many memories. Both of them were dead and buried years ago.  Now, finally, they were at peace from the war.  It had always been with him.\par
\par
Deem accidentally dropped a water glass from the bannister at the top of the stair down onto the floor below.  Kitten, sitting in the dining area, hit  the deck.  He was furious. Water and glass everywhere.  Was that on purpose?  \par
\par
Whiggins insisted on eating in the kitchen if Deem was there, him being an officer and all and Whiggins his servant.  It was clear he considered himself such.  He cleaned up well and took care of Deem's clothing, shined his shoes and ran errands for him when needed.  Sometimes he just functioned as a bodyguard. \par
\par
Conversation with Dennis Opp on Thursday morning.  Thursday afternoon Deem wandered the town.  Exhausted, he took the wrong turn and finds himself lost on a country road.  He fell asleep and is arrested by a Deputy.  He is freed by Kitten and Aaron.  He then received a phone call from the bishop, who seemed to know all his movements.  The other two candidates are no longer interested.  Deem was now the sole candidate.  The bishop was going to inform the Session next, but Deem was asked to keep it quiet.  He did.  \par
\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 4 Deem Comes to the Ranch\par
\par
\cf1\ulnone\b0 Kikker Industries is 90% underground, with the residential 10% in earth-sheltered homes facing away from the highway, discretely hidden.  Deem signs a non-disclosure agreement and learns there is a nuclear power plant down there with 95% energy recaptiure that is harnessed to make the ceramics.  There is a testing lab in Grandview that is certified to test products that is open to inspection, but there are no tours of the facility and visitors, including customers, are unwelcome.  It is, in a word, opaque. So are the finances, as it is wholly owned by the privately held Profim Properties and they do not reveal their finances to anyone, a position they have successfully held for 30 years. They do however contribute generously to Nicholls City and County, who leave them alone. Their eight settlements of approximately 100 dedicated workers each manages to create an income upwards of ten billion dollars a year in 2016. The Council of Twelve accepts a tithe but does not divulge what that is.  Of that tithe they also quietly support the Epper church in Nicholls, as well as statewide and national candidates for office who agree to leave them alone. \par
\par
Kikker Industries (KI) is composed of eight different specialized, mostly independent  settlements that together manufacture high quality, precision medical ceramics and specialized ceramics for industrial applications that are sold worldwide. Each buys and sells on its own but they are each other's primary customers and suppliers. Each settlement, Epper fashion, provides for their own sustenance, including basic food, shelter and clothing beyond that. \cf0\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
\lang9 Deem met a.k.a. "Baptist Bob" Stockwood, who moved to Nicholls from the Ranch to start a Baptist church that never happened. because Pastor Smit had been very effective at collecting all the Protestants into the Epper church, but now there might be a chance.  To support himself, he started a car wash, was successful, and held classes for people. It is derisively referred to as "Brother Bob's Baptist Seminary and Car Wash."  He attended church elsewhere.  Deem, to his own surprise, overcame suspicions and befriended him (to some criticism from clannish Eppers), although Bob never joined the Eppers. Just a Christian brother, a friend outside the congregation, and Deem appreciated that.  Neither is out to convert the other.  Friendship without agenda. \cf1\lang1033 Is this worth being here? Why?  If I am asking, does that tell me the answer?  Amusing, but worth while?? Yes: illustrates that non-Epper Christians exist in Nicholls and are fellow travellers with Deem and company. Imparts some realism.  Also explains, maybe, to some extent, why there are no other Protestant churches in Nicholls - Pastor Smit's legacy is still strong.\cf0   \cf3 Spelling of Smit/Schmidt/ etc is inconsistent. Choose one.  \cf0 Baptist Bob was also considering a tempting offer from Johnson Bank to allow "professional management" to run the car wash: Bob would get the profits, and, of course, pay a fee for management and all maintenance costs.  After thinking it over and talking it over with his own pastor, he had just decided to decline, but he thought there may be repercussions in the community.  There were no outright threats, just a feeling that declining the offer was not something that would please some powerful people. \ul\b\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\ulnone\b0  Sandy Sands: \cf3\i  \cf2 Why is Sandy here? Is Kitten here, too? No. That would be added complexity.  I don't think Kitten is all that interested.  Aaron, however, should be here.  Sandy has been handling communications between the Ranch and the church in town, a role he reluctantly took.  He'd been on the Council of 12 and departed during Peter Muis' time.  \i0\par
\cf0  Gary Sands: \cf3\i receptive Ranch      \cf2 needed: this is Deem's introduction to the Ranch, he sees Ellen for the first time, but it should be combined with Gary Sands.  Gary is Sandy's son.  He grew up on the Ranch and stayed when his parents left. \i0\par

\pard\ltrpar\cf0\par
\par
viewpoint of Elder Kitten Pfingster  - no. \par
\par
\lang9 Kitten may be more of a caricature than I would like.    \cf2\f2\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\cf0\f0\lang1033\par
\par
Hollow-eyed stares at times.  'I lived through it and now I have to live with it.' 'Wth what?' 'Terror. For me the war will never be over.'  'Are you still angry with the Japanese?" "No. I worked through that. I hated them - we all did - but I think I am over that now.  But don't ask me to eat at a Japanese restaurant.'  Still was having nightmares.\par
\par
That night Kitten had a nightmare, wherein he was told to return to the front lines on Okinawa after being in reserve.  He woke up in a cold sweat, screaming.  Deem prayed for him, and he is surprised when he gets a sound night of sleep Thursday night.  Then Friday, and onward.  No one had prayed for him before, and he wondered why not, he told his wife. Her response was that she had been praying for him ever since he got back from the Pacific, and this was about the first time he had been able to sleep all night for two nights in a row.   Has buddies wounded, some in the Vet Home in Nicholls.  He takes Deem there. \par
\par
Kitten continually watched for snipers and will not go down certain streets in Nicholls with large trees.  He scanned rooflines habitually and has enormous situational awareness.  He is still stuck in World War 2.  He cannot abide fire works and sudden loud noises make him hit the deck.  He is a combat vet of Guadalcanal, Cape Gloucester, Pelielieu and the occupation of Manchuria - as well as Inchon and Pusan.  He also sees things, whether hallucinations or realities, and remembers false things.  Sargeant Colson, for example, was killed on Cape Gloucester, but Kitten sees him around town.  A Marine named Charles had died in 2014 but Kitten was insisting lately that he had died on Guadalcanal and they had gotten the date wrong. He also sees Marines guarding the church and Marine sentries around his house.  Sometimes he checks on them. He smells a Japanese position to the southwest and often wonders when the brass will order it taken out. \par
\par
scene one: arrivall.  Kitten expected Deem to complain and whine. Before Deem said anything, Kitten said, "Cut the crap. We are interested in what you can do for us, not what happened to you." Deem thanked him for getting to the point  Kitten thought about it and says he realized Deem has not been complaining.  But he should be, says Kitten. Maybe. In any case he, Kitten Pfingster, was out of line. "I apologize," he told Deem, who shrugged it off.\par
\par
In evaluating Deem Kitten, then said he had to choose between Marine Corps gut-feel of what a good leader is, and the truth.  He had never had to do this before. He had lived by the fourteen traits. Kitten reeled them off.  Deem did not appear to be what he really was, Kitten admitted, which was why Kitten had just not straight-out rejected him.  Fair is fair and Kitten sought justice here.\par
\par
Deem did not seem to be able to say anything right in Kitten's eyes.  But Kitten kept backing off from that when he realized he was being unfair to Deem.\par
\par
Kitten showed Deem a map of Pelileu on the wall of his room. It showed the landing beaches and in red, hand-drawn, was a line that Kitten told him is the best guess as to his own movements.  There was a display case of medals and ribbons. "Yours?""No, my son's," Kitten said.  "The one we buried." \par
\par
There were also the fourteen USMC Leadership Traits on a poster, with Scripture references beneath each one and an expository paragraph.  Kitten watched Deem read through them. "That's what I'm talking about." Deem nodded. \par
\par
\par
In the middle of the night Kitten woke to use the head. He saw the light was on in Deem's room. He tiptoed in and saw Deem asleep at his desk and the sermon notes. He read enough Greek to realize there was a problem: this was hardly a promising start to a sermon.  He had noted Deem's procrastination silently at other points.  He could not hold Deem to Marine standards.  But he had to find a standard by which passing or failure would be valid. Somehow Deem had to merit it.  He couldn't just walk in and be given a pastorate, could he?\par
\par
\par
In the early morning Deem carried the empty water glass he had taken to his room and put it on the bannister while he tucked his shirt in. The glass fell, shattering onto the floor twenty feet below.  Downstairs he found Kitten hit the deck automatically. Getting up furious and red-faced  Kitten was initially suspicious that Deem had done it deliberately, but decided it was an accident. Deem insisted on cleaning it up and Kitten's wife, Marigold, silently handed him a broom and dust pan. Kitten was unhappy about the new dent in the wood floor. "A touch with the iron and it will be gone," she said soothingly,"worse things happen in love and war." "Yes, they do," Kitten replied. "It won't happen again, will it?" Deem said it would not.\par
\par
"We don't have fireworks around here, and we avoid loud, sudden noises," Marigold tells Deem. Kitten looks out of a Higgins boat at a tropical shore ahead, that shore revealing shattered palm trees between the explosions from sixteen inch shells.  Then he is back.\par
\par
At breakfast  Kitten asked him "simple" questions before his fellow elder Dennis Opp arrived to grill him. Kitten stated again that he was determined to see this thing through, 'this' being a demonstration that Deem was the wrong candidate. He also wanted to be fair to everyone. The facts seemed to be lining up against Deem, to be blunt. Did Deem believe the Apostles' Creed and the 66 books of the Bible? Yes. What about the five Solas? Yes.  Was he an Arminian or a Calvinist? Neither - he was an Epper. It's a both-and and a neither.  Did he pray the Lord's prayer? Did he believe in church discipline? Yes he did. Kitten got on him about being single, but in the end Kitten was satisfied. There was more here than he had expected. \par
\par
Kitten tells him if he goes to the Ranch to stay out of Snake Woods. \lang9 Kitten tells of 1947 attempt on Snake Woods with a flamethrower and Marine vets - they withdrew. They would have needed more flame throwers - they only had one, and they could only have it for a short time.  Many painful, nasty, later infected bug bites and the snakes kept coming. They had to walk on bones, some human, when they got into the woods - the flames attracted the bugs and the snakes.   There was the rotting smell of burnt and decaying flesh - it reminded Kitten of Okinawa - they came to the edge of a cliff and looked down into a ravine that seemed to be full of snakes and those flies over it. There was no way down from where they were and they had to flame a path out of there because otherwise they would have been surrounded by snakes.  No one got bit by a snake, but no one wanted to go back, either. And several got sick from the bug bites. There was also a crazy man who tried to interfere with them - it seemed like he was possessed, or something: warning them to stay out.  They were afraid he would get hurt. He was there when they came and after they left. No idea who he was. The flies seemed to breed and hover over the shallow, slimy waters just east of Snake Woods. There were biiting gnats as well as horseflies. But both were very aggressive. \lang1033\par
\par
\par
scene five: Aaron and Dennis show up. \par
scene six: Aaron and Kitten have a short sharp discussion about Deem. In the end, firiend, it is grace, not merit, that determines what we do in the kingdom of God., Aaron continues, telling them they would be a lot better off finding reasons to allow Deem to do what God called him to do instead of reasons to stop him.  Aaron has a look on his face that indicates he just discovered he is backing Deem 100%. The Church is not the Marine Corps.  That should not be a radical concept but seems to be. \par
\par
from then through Friday early morning, when they were mostly together., Kitten came to realize there was more here than he had thought.  He came to realize there was real determination underneath, that here was treasure in this earthen vessel, and he stayed in Deem's corner after having despised him. We all do what we do by grace, not merit, outside of the Corps.  Nicholls and the world needed to hear that message. \par
\par
Thursday Kitten learned from the clerk of Session that of the other two candidates, one decided, under the bishop's guidance, that he did not fit Nicholls. The other accepted a position elsewhere. Without a pastor the church will fold, Kitten thought, and so he had to find some way to accept Deem.   \par
\par
Deem suggested there are those who trust in the USMC or in being an Epper, above trusting in Christ. Trusting in anything except Christ is trusting in a falsehood. He also wonders if the church is in the shape it is in because they seem to have such enormously high standards - as in being a USMC vet - for entrance.  The church is not the VFW hall.  While there must be standards for membership, anyone - anyone - should be welcome, welcomed, and encouraged to join.  And membership does not mean perfection.  Kitten says it is more the particular strain of Nicholls culture here - it seems to have fossilized.  He does not realize he himself is a prime example. Or maybe he does.  But those who return to Nicholls and embrace Marine culture are few - they are a little over the top and peculiar. \par
\par
Kitten was the most opposed to Deem but winds up backing him even when he would otherwise balk. \par
\par
The Bank of Nicholls is the one holding the note on the big Epper church in town. The local bankers regret the order to close it, but it came "from out of town." Kitten sometimes wonders if someone out there has something against Nicholls. Few people have loans or mortgages and most if not all transactions in Nicholls are cash. No one really trusts the bank any more. \par
\par
Kitten asked Deem that night what he did in fighting the fire, as they had been split up.\par
\par
Nicholls resident Jim Smithston, never in the Marines and not native, lived mostly apart from the Marine community. He was a member in the Nicholls Epper church, one of the few remaining, but not an elder, either. In the church he was also somewhat isolated and concerned about the state of the church. Deem ate lunch with Kitten and him at Kikker Industries cafeteria (free to workers and guests, in the Epper tradition). He was a Jeremiah type who has been warning people at the church, in particular the elders, about the state of the church.  He was opposed to Hartmann but has gotten no thanks for being proven right, labeled a trouble maker.  He stood in opposition with a brass determination and an actual burden from the Lord.  It is odd that he prayed with "those women" for the church.  He worked as a mathematical modeler at Kikker Industries: the math models were used to build both molds and actual ceramic objects, and staged objects. These were then turned over to structural engineers who analyzed the stresses before the items were made. Tall and thin, he played basketball with some of the Mexicans in town and wais fluent in Spanish as far as playing basketball is concerned.\ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 Kitten conceded Deem was remarkably grateful, persevering, unassuming, quiet and unassertive unless he has to be assertive. For Kitten, Deem Futz wins acceptance as pastor.He actually would be a model Marine, something the elders sense but cannot articulate. Better yet, a model Christian.   He "has arrived", it is just no one seems to realize it. most of all him, in the inner man.  The discrepency between what Deem really was and what he appears to be was notable. He told Deem he believed in him now and he would not give up on him, even if he gave up on himself. Looking at Deem's arms, he asked,"Do you work out?" Deem found himself working out, and even taking self-defense at Main Street Mixed Martial Arts, where "The Beast" Mueller (no relationship to the Muellers of Ranch frame), former officer in charge of martial arts first at Parris Island and then at Quantico, finally at the Infantry School, ran his shop. "The Beast" took it upon himself to train Deem from nowhere to some semblance of his idea of a warrior in physique.  He is a devout Catholic.  Hearing of trouble, he and his assistant trainers decided to provide Deem with 24 hour protection.  \par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 4 Unexpected Direction\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 First Sunday.\par
\par
Deem had to go to Lee's Summit to get a suit, as his was not back from the cleaners.  "Don't ask me," said the clerk,"everything here is now run out of Harrisonville. We got bought out and they make the decisions up there.  I don't know where your suit is at."\par
\par
\par
No one told Deem he was supposed to teach the Sunday school class until he was in the room, and there was silence, and people looked at him with an expectant look and someone coughed politely.  Among other things, Deem again dunked the end of his tie in his coffee as he was teaching the class.  They said nothing.  \par
\par
\par
Aaron, the bishop and his wife, and two officials from the presbytery were in the last row. The church was crowded and overflowing because people were curious about the pastoral candidate and wanted to check him out.  The week before there had been around twenty people, mostly elders and their wives.  \par
\par
Worship was awful, badly led by a grim-faced elderly lady on the piano and the lady who thought she was in charge of everything soloed badly.  They did three military-oriented hymns.  An elder made announcements, led a prayer, welcomed the distinguished guests, including the bishop and two presbyters, and introduced Deem at the end of the offeratory without warning.  \par
\par
Deem unfolded his sermon notes and discovered the sermon that he thought was complete was just a mass of scribbles.  But instead of delivering a very poor sermon, he preached a good off-the-cuff one.  \par
\par
Deem managed to put his foot in his mouth by thinking the two officials, one a man and one a woman, are married, as he is not used to women serving at that level.  She brushed it off but it came across as hideously awkward.  He also said the wrong thing to the bishop's wife, whom he had never met before.  This was in front of many witnesses. \par
\par
Deem witnessed a man rising from the dead during the Nicholls Sunday service, held then at the funeral parlor.  Afterwards, the denomination sent him an amenuensis when they find he is without one - a retired pastor.  Later Deem discovered the man was also reporting to the CDP, who regarded a resurrection in the Sunday service as out of order and wanted to know if such carryings-on are happening to the point they needed to take action against Deem.  The man, exposed, leaves. \par
\par
\par
--------\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
viewpoint of Elder Sandy Sands \cf1 -  is this still valid?\par
\par
some of this needs to be moved\cf0\par
\par
With concern Sandy looked at their only candidate from Saturday morning coffee then after church and Monday morning's meeting.  Really? He is trying to fit together what he considers the bishop's usual good judgement with what he sees before him. He wants to be loyal to the bishop, to the Epper church, to God, to himself, and it is not fitting. He is working hard to see any good in Deem. In his eyes Deem does nothing to encourage him.  Deem really does not care about what anyone thinks of him.  That, finally, gets through and Sandy sees it.  But he is a no vote on Monday morning.    \par
\par
\cf1 I'm thinking of ending his part after his lunch with his wife. \cf0 The meeting Monday can be seen in restrospect.  Deem's position is extremely insecure but he acts anyway.  It seems like Sandy is 'done' on Sunday and someone else should take up the tale.  \par
\par
In line at the grocery store, Deem sees a man in front of him attempt to apply for a job. He is rejected out of hand because he lives in the trailer court.  Deem follows him and tells him he needs to move and he, Deem, will find him housing.  Deem shows up at Pfingsters', who have plenty of room and there is the ancient 'hospitality not hostility' in Epper culture.  Kitten takes them in.  This shocks the church.  \ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
\par
At the end of the second sermon Deem wept over the state of the church openly and unashamedly, in front of this tough Marine crowd.  People are spiritually dead, deflected, chasing other things, uninterested in Christ, without passion for what He is passionate about: they should be weeping, crying out for their sins instead of sitting there judging him as a weaking.  Are they Christians or Pharisees? He says calamities are coming on Nicholls, on the Ranch, on the whole area.  It is wholly, absolutely inappropriate for anyone to seem to have a nervous breakdown here, let alone the pastor during a sermon.  This is absolutely terrible.  But some listen and nod and cry. But many, including all the elders, are angry.  The best he gets from them is that he should have shown some tact if he was going to say such things and wait until he knew them and he had won their respect, have known the town better, and certainly not show himself to be a crybaby. A gentle loving rebuke would have gone farther from someone they respected. But not this.\par
\par
They sit down with Deem and go over the 14 Marine leadership traits, which they start off thinking he sorely lacks.  They have to admit at the end of the discussion he has them, just not in the way they are used to seeing them.  "Sometimes we need to open our eyes," Deem says,"and certainly I am not perfect in any of them. Are you?" Silence.\par
\par
The town is woken by an early morning fire at the Pohle home.  The fire completely consumes the house and is later determined to be arson. The bodies of Mrs. Pohle, her daughter and son Sy are found in the ashes.  There are indications they had been bound and tortured. The mayor tells the arson investigator not to pursue the case. The detective had said she had been an employee of the Nicholls Bank until she had been fired three weeks ago,  and she was going to meet him to tell him something important. "I'm sure it was nothing," the mayor says. Sandy looks at the detective and the arson investigator, who both have blank looks.  "She's Catholic," the mayor says,"So you Eppers won't be doing the funeral. Do you need anything else, Sandy? I think we are done here."\par
\par
In response to Deem's sermon townspeople decide to take over the trailer court, Marine style. On Tuesday morning before dawn armed Marine vets in full gear took the trailer court without firing a shot.  They find women being trafficked, stolen cars,  a chop shop, a large quantity of drugs, a meth lab, and over fifty men and women with outstanding arrest warrants, including several prison escapees.   \par
\par
No one told Deem.  But people thought it was the best thing that had happened in a long time As it seemed to be Deem's idea, or at least he got the credit (or blame) and it was a success, it established Deem as a leader in the communiity.\par
\par
\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 5 Return to Snake Woods\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\ulnone\b0  Ellen Bread: \cf3\i now jongdamme\cf0  \cf2  \cf0\par
\i0  Seth Kuyper: \cf3\i enemy down  \cf2\i0  \i   Ellen being a jongedamme is here incidental, only a setup for later action.  Isaiah is trailed in the open land by Crazy Harry.  He loses him by going into Snake Woods and crosses the unstable perimeter of the sinkhole, but Harry, less nimble and heavier, slides in.  \cf0\par
\i0\par
\cf2 whatever happened to the gifts of the Spirit discussion? I don't see that in parts 2 or 3, and is only a side issue in part 1.  The Gifts are present and in use at the Ranch in a limited way: many have become wary of having seen or heard of misuse in the past, including some who never really accepted them but passively tolerated them.  There is an underlying prayer movement that rarely gets alluded to but is there.  \cf0\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0  Gary filled Deem in on the situation regarding the elders. The Council of Twelve were ten, including  Cassell, Yaddock, Meyer , Hook, and Berg (now elderly and mainly confined to his house).  This is not John Cassell but another, Paul Cassell. There are 10, with Sands having left and Paul de le Grande being deceased, but they do not feel they can select someone to fill the two positions. Deacons include Pol, Voort, Kalua,  Smirnoff and Wu.  The Council of Twelve is unwilling to promote anyone or, for that matter, allow any deacon to resign.  Kalua is presently not serving as a deacon. Marshall is serving as one but is not called a deacon, because that would require a formal act, which they are reluctant to do. \par
\par
They explained to Deem that: in 2016 The Council of 12 resolves problems that weren't be solved inside a settlement, or between settlements, and provides overall guidance.  They function more as a Supreme Court, but an admiinistrator is the Executive. They use Paul L's 'self-organizing principle' : only impose organization when it doesn't happen naturally, or happens unhealthily.  So they may encourage healthy things and prune, but they leave the planting and watering to others.   They use negotiation and persuasion, may require restitution, and there is the threat of exile.  No jail, no trial by jury, no laws on the books.  Each settlement has its own code, which is the Basic Ten, and deals with violations as they see fit.\par
\par
The Council of 12 performis the work of the session, administering sacraments, preaching, in charge of religious instruction and worship.  They have assumed all pastoral duties, which they would prefer to have in the hands of a pastor, for whom they are waiting. It is not clear how or if the congregation(s) would vote on a pastor. Typically the elders get the mind of a settlement regarding a candidate and understand what they want, but here there are many settlements and they do not know everyone.  Given a candidate, perhaps each settlement should be polled.  Until Deem getting a pastor had been remote, as they had been occupied with other issues than this one.\par
\par
--\par
\par
Deem was shown Melanos, as he has an interest in cattle. Kitten and Gary were there.  To their shock, without a word Deem leaped over the fence and approached Melanos, arms out in front of him, making clicking noises.  Melanos trotted over and stood, then skipped in front of Deem and lowered his head, wagging his horns playfully. Deem scratched his neck as Melanos sniffed his feet. Kitten was about to say something, but Gary told him to not disturb Melanos - this was a very dangerous situation.  Other people passing by stopped and stared.  Deem gave the enormous bull a rub-down and they quickly became old friends.  Deem scratched his stomach as he lay on his side, and then walked carelessly back to the fence.  Melanos followed like a happy puppy and Deem gave him a carrot. "I will be back," Deem said. Melanos bellowed as Deem left.\par
\par
"You must have cattle where you are from," Sandy said.  Kitten's eyes were as big as saucers. "Yes. And we handle them every day.  We do not isolate them like this. You should get him a big inflatable ball and let him push it around, and play fetch with it."\par
\par
"You have got to be kidding me."\par
\par
"Get one.  Next time I am out here I will show you."\par
\par
"I don't think anyone else wants to get close to him.  I don't think anyone else wants to."\par
\par
"That's your loss - and his."\par
\par
"I never-" was all Kitten managed to say.  He had a new appreciation for Deem.\par
---\par
Deem met with one settlement, at their request.  Or, anyway, with all the men. The women were upstairs with the children, where they could hear but be quiet. It was a settlement of around 200, with twenty adult men and he also saw six teenage boys. They were curious about each other.  No one in the settlement spoke English, so the discussion was in Koine. Some settlements had mixed services. What did the pastor think of that? Deem learned that they meant not only were the women in the service, but often sitting side by side. No, he did not intend to stop that practice.  What would his role be as pastor? They intended to continue their own services. Was that a problem? No. Would he preach there? Sometimes.  He was not intending to replace but increase. The tension visibly relaxed.  He was treated to strong bitter coffee and falafel, which was new to him.  One man took him aside and said he was having some marriage difficulties. Deem said he was willing to sit down with him and his wife, and the man explained that he wanted Deem's advice, and he would tell that to his wife. Deem said maybe that approach was the problem.  The man frowned and said he would think about bringing his wife.  When was Deem going to return? He didn't know. He might be better off discussing this with someone from his settlement or going to the Council of Twelve. \par
\par
\par
Gary guarded the old gate on Friday night with others, against some would-be invaders.\par
\par
Wells started getting water, what with the rain. \par
\par
Strange that the Pohle house had been torched in town, and there was a son named Sy. Sy - Isaiah.  Odd coincidence? Deem wondered who they were, whether she was saved, what she was planning to tell the detective. Why had they been killed and their house torched?  Gary said people say don't mess with Johnson Bank: bad things happen. Deem:"Are you really accusing them of murder?" Gary had no better idea. He thought the Bank would destroy the Ranch and the city of Nicholls if the Bank thought they were in their way. Old man Johnson had an evil reputation. \par
\par
Deem saw Ellen Bread flit by, which unexpectedly distracted him as he met Gary Sands and an elder at the Ranch. Aaron was there. \par
\par
Gary thought it would take a while to get used to Deem. Deem said he identified with Paul, one thing in person and another in his letters.  He does what he does by the grace of God (he gives himself no credit).   \par
\par
Gary told Deem that from chaos to extreme poverty (it took years for the Epper settlements here to become profitable, and that did not happen all at once, and some were still not self-sufficient), poor soil, lack of water from wells, poor quality well water (contaminants, bacteria), cattle disease, sickness, trespassers growing marijuana, internal dissent, hassles with state and federal regulatory agencies, an unusual number of mechanical breakdowns, coyotes, internal  dissension, heavy criticism of the Council of 12 as overauthoritative or not providing direction and resolving conflict, cultural differences between Epper communities, the Ranch has always faced an array of problems. Now they seemed to be under attack by a hostile outside power. Was the business about the coins just a pretext? It seemed there has always been someone wanting to push them out of wherever they have lived: the Epper persecution complex, but this time maybe there was something to it.\par
\par
Pearl Mirren showed Deem the neglected berry garden that Paul had built and asks Deem if she can restore it. He said he sees no reason why not.\par
\par
\par
Deem heard there were miracles at the Ranch.  That was a long time ago, semi-mythical,  and Gary has not heard of any for years. The joy of the Lord is our strength - odd that Deem talks about our walk with Christ being defined by suffering and His seeming absence. But it fits. It is not defined by miracles, when and if they happen in Gary's world.  \par
\par
The Pflumms finally moved out of a trailer and into a stone house.  Katy agreed to take the boxes of Agatha's stories - there are many, as her younger sister is trying to keep up, and those stories are there too.  They are stacked near Katy's office in the trailer.  \par
\par
During church someone enters the Warren and steals boxes from Katy's office.  But all they get are Agatha's stories.  "I hope they enjoy them," Papa said. \par
\par
After the incident at South Gate Friday night and at Butler's Saturday, the Ranch increased security. South Gate was to remain closed.  Aurochsen were returned to their normal area: there were questions about the strength of the temporary gates and the risk to the valuable aurochsen. \par
\par
Gary Sands, Sandy's son, met Deem. He stayed at the Ranch when his parents left.Peter Muis is gone, but what about those who desired to follow him into error, who benefited from it and were so willing to blind themselves to it for the sake of what - having a human leader in place of Christ? Don't colleges do the same sort of thing? They make it easier not to think, instead of teaching you to think?  Gary gets a lot out of time alone on the prairie where he can think. \par
 \par
Deem counseled Gary on a problem Gary asked him about but draws more strength from it than Gary does. Gary asked Deem and heard how Deem was called in to a 6AM elders meeting to receive a tenuous acceptance, as well as his more solid acceptance at the Ranch as liaison.  The second Sunday he is to preach both in town and at the Ranch, at the main service in the HQ settlement.  He plans to visit other settlements on future Sundays, those that are interested.  Not all are.\par
\par
April Bread was upset.  The berry garden was given to her mother by Paul de le Grande to take care of when he got too old to take care of it. This year April gave birth to twins and had no time for the garden.  Why does Pearl get custody without even talking to her? Deem said he had no idea. Obviously Pearl has spoken to April. But why should April have it if she has not been able to care for it, what with other duties and the drought? Can April take care of it or should she really let go of it?  She let  go of it, but Pearl, who had arrived, had trouble concealing her look of triumph.  Deem told her to be sure April gets a lot of berries next spring, like the whole crop for a year.  Pearl looked stunned but nodded. \par
\par
Gary related what Mike Smirnov has told him to Deem. Gary put some pieces together later, which he shared with Deem.  An Ethiopian cannot change his skin or a leopard his spots - Gary told Deem that Mike felt helplessly trapped in his position.  Only God's grace could change him but he was still responsible for his situation.  Mike felt trapped and helpless. Gary asked Mike if he had faith to believe God will change him.  Mike did not know. \par
 \par
The unauthorized visitor on Monday afternoon was arrested.   Strangers had to be chased off the property, most of whom leave without contact. Gary visited three settlements without electricity and modern communications to warn them.  Trespassers had been increasing in number.  They also were coming back.  This was a quandry, as Eppers are open to everyone who wants to come, but historically the settlements have been small and exiling someone meant they really went away.  Eppers also avoid having much that can be stolen.  In the past Eppers have dealt with unwelcome, violent visitors in a way that they will not come back.    These guys are returning, for unknown reasons, avoid Ranch people but are hostile when approached.  The Ranch does not and will not have a No Trespassing policy, so what to do? And what to do with them? The Ranch has no jail for someone who say sets fire to the place, instead uses restitution, but these people are not interested in that.  They are looking for news of the treasure, and for Isaiah Poller.  \par
\par
An unlearned, uneducated low-level sometime-ranchhand who goes by the sobriquet of 'Weed' still struggles with the Weed despite many years on the Ranch.  Weed makes an appearance, mistaken for a stranger.  He's been known to wander.\par
From when to when?\tab I would think one incident Friday evening, then Monday afternoon.  He, too, is looking for Isaiah.  He tells someone he's been told to, but 'dunno' when asked who told him to look.  He is somewhat stoned out of his mind. \par
\par
The incident of the woman who kills an intruder would fit in here. \par
\par
Kitten made an appearance "need to dig in - they will just keep coming and coming. We will kill them all if we have to."  Gary wondered if the old man is losing it.  Kitten thought  should have fox holes.  He seems to be elsewhere, fading in and out of World War 2. They have no artillery and no air support.  No malaria any way. Not a single case. They've seen worse. \par
\par
Gary had been involved in the People of Praise as a teenager, including what he now thought of as going too far, but is now over that. Prophecy, he opined to Deem, is staid.  Knowing Christ is an antidote to depression, to impatience, to shame.  He was ashamed of how he was taken in.  There are those who seek your soul, that they be allowed to dominate you or they will kiill you or otherwise dispose of you.  Those who came in the rain, the People of Praise, various politicians he has heard about are like that.  \par
\par
"We are not to despise prophecy, but it is not necessarily the same thing as preaching, either.  It seems to be highly inspired preaching, but not on a level with Scripture- when it can, it should be tested by Scripture."\par
\par
"That cannot always be done. For example, Agabus and the famine."\par
\par
"Yes.  There is a role for prophecy outside of the pulpit ministry, it would seem. If you will, even an office, and that beyond that of the Old Testament prophets.  I would venture to say New Testament prophets are subject to Scripture and submit to the church authority - while not necessarily being identical to it."\par
\par
"I thought Eppers were cessationists."\par
\par
"That is a misunderstanding.  The official teaching on prophets is that the office has not excluded. However, no one today is included in the office, because we are at a loss as to how to recognize someone in the office. To be there, one would have to have a record of tested prophecies, but you cannot have a record without having prophesied.  And it seems only prophets prophesy. So until there is a consensus as to how to recognize a prophet, that office will be empty, and anyone claiming it is disruptive and subject to censure. And there are the prophets in the book of Revelations, which I cannot see as having gone through licensure with the Eppers or some such to assume their offices. Likewise God heals, for that matter, sovereignly. "\par
\par
"I see."\par
\par
Deem and Ellen met right after a Q & A with the Ranch, told from Ellen's perspective. He shifts from not much of a man, as she had been told, to the man she would like to marry.  He is not willing to compromise truth for the sake of reconciliation, or for that matter, to stay an Epper.  He trusts they are the same and they should not trust in whatever traditions of men have sprung up on the Ranch, because those are less than God's best, whatever they are.  Deem takes the same light grip on the town church. He wants neither if they Deem is installed as pastor of the church in town and liaison to the Ranch. Deem only manages to do this by explaining he will not compromise his core values, and neither should they, but non-core items are certainly negotiable.  He lays out the 5 Solas as non-negotiable, but the Epper statements of faith as negotiable, which is breath-taking given the CDP could get him.  'Chrisit is our life, not human formulations. Anything short of Him is not the truth. Our formulations are meant to describe that truth, not to be ends in themselves.  Likewise Marine Corps values only have value as they are derived from the Scriptures and ultimately from Christ, as there is no truth independent of Him.  \par
\par
\par
\par
Deem explained to Ellen that he would like to marry, and that he would like to court her, but he cannot court someone in his congregation in good conscience.  She was not interested in marrying anyone, ever.  Not that he would be a bad match. But no.  \par
\par
The town church embodied The Warrior Code, the Ranch, Shout to the Lord.  How can these be reconciled? God is both Judge-Warrior and Lover-Redeemer. The only reconciliation we can see is on the cross, meaning the Marine culture and the charismatic culture can only be reconciled, truly, through Christ.  This is in a conversation between Deem and someone at the Ranch.\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf1 not sure this is central:\cf0\par
why would we have enemies, Isaiah wonders.  What makes some people bad? Didn't God create all men good?  Why would He create someone, knowing they will go to hell? He is told God makes some like Pharoah to oppose Him to demonstrate His glory. Tough on them, isn't it? How can God be good and do this? <All this in eight year old speech>.  He is sent off to talk to Pastor Futz.  God is good. We start there.  We all had a choice, but [reprise Reformed theology with an eight year old.  It turns out the Eppers are 5 point Calvinists - or rather, that is one acceptable position.  Arminianism is another 'model' that is acceptable.  Some things God has left as a mystery].\par
\par
But Gary decided that Deem would be a good pastor.  He has not had one in a long time, but the gift seems to be there. \par
. \par
\cf1  move the following\cf0\par
\cf2\ul\b Chapter 6. Tony: \ulnone\b0\i unexpected direction\par
\cf0\par
\i0 Deem, living at Pfingsters, gets a note from the Post Office saying there is a piece of mail at the Post Office that they think may be his.  He is to bring photo-id and two other forms of identification and proof that he lives there, and he can pick it up.  Kitten says things have been like this for years; the postmaster refuses to deliver mail and you have to go pick it up.  Deem has no proof he lives there.  Kitten goes with him to vouch for him and gives him an earful about how many people pick up their mail and mail it from Archie or Audrain, because the Nicholls Postmaster is determined to let no mail through if she can possibly help it.  Deem finds a long line and has to take a number and a seat in the waiting area. Finally his name is called. He explains calmly that he wants his mail, that her job is to deliver mail, and he hopes that this will never happen again. With narrowed eyes she wants to know, or what.  And Deem says he supposes he will be at her mercy.  God will give mercy as she has given mercy to others - what does she want to get?  She gives Deem his mail.  The next day, for the first time in years, everyone gets all their mail, including what had been on hold pending investigation at the Post Office.  Word gets around that Deem had talked to her and had solved a decades-old problem: people had screamed at her at length and gotten nowhere, but Deem had done it with a few quiet words.  His stock around town went up considerably.\i\par
\par
\i0 Deem helps out Tony from the trailer court.   God has not forgotten the poor: if you want a day of visitation, hang around the poor. God comes to the poor and needy not the wealthy and satisfied.  \par
\par
Deem challenges Kitten to take in Tony and family in the ancient Epper tradition of hospitaility.  To his surprise he does, and Kitten uses him around the house for lifting things and Marigold takes Anna as sort of a \i jongedamme\i0 , as her skills are low, but much more gently, more like a tender daughter. This shocks many in town, who look down on the trailer court trash. Tony gets a job now that he has a "decent" address. Marigold had been a \i jongedamme\i0  in the old days.  Anna hears about the \i jongedamme\i0  tradition: Marigold explains that it is only for single women as \i jongedammen\i0  and Anna is married, and the mentor is always a mother with young children. And no, the mentors never have beaten their jongedammen - viscious rumor. Probably somewhere someone did so once but she has never heard of it. But Marigold can teach her how to run a household.  She needs the help. \par
\par
Deem's second sermon was a reaming out of the congregation for the neglect of the trailer court and allowing it to fester.  They approved of a proper Epper sermon: but once again he burst  into unseemly and unmanly tears. Is this necessary and going to be a regular thing with this guy? He almost apologized, but they liked it, at least until he started crying. They were being stretched spiritually, so that was that.  \par
\par
Deem was alarmed: Nicholls as a town decided they should annex the trailer court by force if necessary.  Deem was not allowed to participate in its pacification. Without his knowledge they took over the trailer court before dawn, Marine style.  There was no shooting.  This was a turning point for Deem as he realized, and the congregation realized, they are backing him. \par
\par
Jim Smithston told Deem that he had heard through the grapevine that very powerful people were very unhappy about what happened at the trailer court. Bad things were going to happen. His Mexican friends would not say more than that.  \par
\par
Ellen conditionally allowed Deem him to court her, but with no promise at the end of it.  She emphasized it is a trial - she is not sure, after what she has gone through, that she wants to marry, or that she would be a good wife. April Bread is convinced she must somehow be related to Ellen, who absolutely does not want to talk about her past. \par
\i\par
\ul\b\i0\par
Chapter 7. Ellen Bread: \ulnone\b0\i now jongdamme \par
\par
\i0 Ellen Bread decided she needed to decide what her life is about .  She formally joined the Ranch (previously she had no commitment) and then the worship team, in a back-up role. She had been a successful Christian artist who crashed badly and is now putting things back together. Ellen accepts the position of \i jongedamme \i0 with the Pollers to get her head together. She also has no idea how to run a household, let alone cook. \ul\par
\par
\ulnone Ellen hears of Tony, and of the raid on the trailer court.\par
\par
Weed is smitten with Ellen but disgusts her. She struggles to 'love' him as a Christian while detesting everything about the old hippie.  She asks Deem if he would telli him to stop bothering her.  Deem does, and Weed leaves her alone.  He vanishes from Hair Bair, anyway.  The thought passes through her mind that there is something attractive about Deem. Maybe it is just because he is in authority, and he protected her this once. \par
\par
Ellen agrees to court Deem, and there is a transformation in how she sees Deem. Deem seems more secure in his office both at Ranch and in town. We see some of the previous discussions from her perspective. \par
\par
\cf1 write why someone would say this \cf0 The light you hoped for turns to bitter darkness if you do not give glory to the Lord (Jer 13:16). People move in one of the two directions.  Everyone wants light, but some get it because they give glory to God. Everyone else gets the valley of the shadow of death and gross darkness. The valley where the pit is remarked on as "what a dark place" and a "place of shadows" - partly the grey from the ash and the scorched walls.  Who makes this observation, and why is someone there in this chapter? Does that belong elsewhere? The false light is actually darkness, given in judgement by God. \par
\par
Despite all the difficulties and opposition in a time of trouble, it will be well with them.  What God has made them into will transcend any and all earthly troubles: the troubles will break on them like waves on rock.  Although the rock may be underwater, it will be there when the trouble is over. \par
\par
Deem handles a pastoral situation at the Ranch: a sterile man has his brother father his children for him, and ensuing complications.  How do these people feel? How do they live it out? How long ago was that? The man looks at these children and knows they are not his, has trouble with that. Is this worth being here? Why?  If I am asking, does that tell me the answer? This builds Deem's confidence in his role here. \par
\par
The old red south gate is rammed open and Poller's Warren is ransacked while everyone is at church.  They are looking for information about the gold.  They set the Warren on fire, whoever they are, and leave before they can be tracked down. What was not burned was scattered, ripped, turned upside down, etc.   They do not know if Katy's legal files were burned or taken.  But she is especially upset at their greenhouse, where all the plants were pulled out of their pots and thrown on the floor. Where was God when the Warren was pillaged and burned?  Sometimes he is more hidden than they would wish. but they seek Him even in this.\par
\par
 Scene of Pollers mourning their lost trailers and everything they owned on earth, with the broken down gates.  Katy is confounded: her children are safe, but it is like nighttime in the noontime, she is stunned, moving from grief to anger to feeling like God has abandoned her to exhaustion as they need to find living quarters for her family, including the jongedamme and her mother.  Oma takes it with faith, and Katy wishes she had that kind of faith. Why did they tear up the family pictures, especially ones that could not be replaced? There is a favorite picture of her father, mother and her siblings when she was a child that is torn and burnt.  "This world is not our home," Oma tells her, and there will be the living reality where we will all be together and there will be no need to pictures."  It is a hard thing for Katy to let go of. "But you must let go of the things of earth. We all must. The world only makes sense, that is, we can only find succor through the cross.  There is no other way than the way that God has provided. You know that, Katy." She nodded.  \par
\par
"You'll learn the Copenhagen fold. Some people say the Lindstadt fold is better, and then the Russians - what they do they say saves time," Katiy shuddered,"You will not learn that from me!"\par
\par
"Why are you so fussy about the sheets being folded so meticulously?"\par
\par
"First, I am not fussy. That was out of line. You should have said, 'why fold the sheets so carefully?' In the future let us have more respect for me.  It is attention to detail and it will carry over into everything you do.  A habit of mind. A character trait. Let us say, God forbid, you have six children sick, and the doctor prescribes different medications and intervals for each. This will teach you to pay attention to the smallest detail.  Or, for that matter, a complex legal situation."\par
\par
"Yes, ma'am."\par
\par
"I will not tolerate the slightest deviation, nor a wrinkle, nor a fold out of place.  The Copenhagen fold requires an exact square when finished one eighth of an inch thick in this material, cotton, and I will use a tape measure to check it but you will not. You will learn to fold it into an exact square within one-thirty-secondth of an inch."\par
\par
"Yes, ma'am."\par
\par
"Blindfolded."\par
\par
"Yes, ma'am."\par
\par
"In less than ten seconds."\par
\par
"Yes, ma'am."\par
\par
Katy shook out the sheet to its full spread and before Ellen could blink, there it was in a neat square.  "Measure it," she told Ellen.  Ellen pulled the tape from the pocket on her apron.  It was exact.\par
\par
"You will learn that. I will teach you."\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
 Others gather with them to support them.  They move into a new stone house. God is always good, Katie tells her son Isaiah, even when He cannot be seen. Somehow He is always working for good. Deem arrives in role of pastor, is deeply moved; he is effective in both consoling and seeing that they get a new roof over their heads, clothing, food, contributed by others.  "Thank you," Ellen tells Deem,"But I still give you no answer - I need to deal with what you see before you, as you know."\par
\par
\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 8  Seth Kuyper\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 viewpoint of Seth Kuyper \strike\par
\par
\strike0 Seth Kuyper was a friend of Isaiah's, an admirer even though slightly older.  He could not keep up with Isaiah.  No one can.  Seth watched all this.  Harry is not interested in Seth. Seth stayed back from the sinkhole.\par
\par
Security finally warned Mr. Poller that his son may be in danger.  He intended to ground Isaiah when he got home.  He wanted to talk to Isaiah himself, not have someone else do it, and would do so "after this iron is laid - almost done." It was thirty minutes back up to the Warren from where he was. They were building a concrete deck bridge with steel girders across a draw on the perimeter road, which would also be used by two settlements close to the southern limit of the Ranch.  Laying the girders took longer than expected, so he was late getting back.  He was the only one with the requisite experience.  They just didn't lay much iron. But Isaiah was not there. \par
\par
Isaiah Poller runs into some Nicholls kids who recognize him and want to know where the gold is.  He leads them to the sinkhole and points, saying they are welcome to it.   \par
\par
Harry and Eliot followed them. Harry attempts to capture Isaiah.  Isaiah cuts across the shifting soil of the outer area of the sinkhole, hoping Harry will not follow.  But he does.  Harry is the first to fall into the sinkhole while chasing Isaiah, who manages to escape.\par
\par
"I don't feel like I am who I used to be," Deem told Ellen,"It's like someone else is living my life through me, like I am standing aside and just watching.  I am not who I used to be."\par
\par
"Well, I think it is Jesus, and I like you the way you are," Ellen said. \par
\par
\par
------------------------------\par
   \par
\par
\ul\b PART THREE \ulnone\b0\par
\par
Part 3 concerns Deem's wider acceptance in Nicholls, among the Marine and non-Marine community and among the "others" and bringing the three communities (Ranch, Nicholls, trailer park) into one. He breaks down the barriers - their identity is in Christ, not Ranch/town, not Epper/charismatic, not rich/poor.   Deem carries out everything he learned in Part 2 and before he got to Nicholls.\ul\b  \ulnone\b0\par
\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 1  Mayor Southwark \ulnone\b0\i\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\cf3 discovered resistance   \cf2  enemy is now open\cf0\i0\par
 Dennis Opp learns all of what Johnson has been planning.\cf3\i     \cf2  \cf3\par
\cf0\i0  Attack on Hair Bair \cf2\i  \cf0\i0 At the beginning, Ellen is lured out of the Ranch by her mother and is turned over to Eddie, who locks her in his bar's basement for collection by Johnson.\par
\cf2\i\par

\pard\ltrpar How does Deem learn where Ellen is? Why is he the hero here? \cf0\par
\par
\i0 viewpoint of Mayor. \i\par
\i0\par
People in Nicholls took sides, either with the Ranch or with the Boss.  It was an ugly, unresolvable standoff, until the Boss miscalculates and people realize he doesn't care who gets hurt.  The mayor is caught in the middle, thinking of the next election more than the present crisis.  Somehow Deem emerges as a leader in this resolution.\par
\tab\tab\i\par
\i0 Mayor Southwark is angry at the trouble Deem seems to be stirring up and calls him in for a reaming. But Deem is here to pastor, not play the game, not play politics. The mayor views a church as having social utility, but if it is a liability, why have it?\par
\par
There are people, the mayor tells him, who don't like what he is doing. If Deem does not know what is good for him, that is his lookout. The previous pastors were reasonable people who fit into the community and allowed peaceful prosperity. Quiet lives and all that.  Deem says he has to do what God says. He is sure the previous pastors were men of integrity who could not be bought. The mayor attempts to pull Romans 13 on him but Deem responds with he must follow God not man. \par
\par
People could have been hurt in the takeover of the trailer court.  That was foolish and dangerous and bravado.  Mayor Southwark is glad no one got hurt.  But people were hurt financially. Certain people are furious because the trailer point had been a source of profit and Deem has ruined it.  Mayor Southwark admits some of the activities were questionable if not downright illegal, but he takes life as it is,not as he wishes, and other people do so ever more than he does, and Deem has messed things up around here in a big way, and he needs to fix it.  Smooth feathers, calm people down.  There are people at Johnson Bank in Harrisonville who are heavily -- heavily - invested in Nicholls and he urges Deem to go visit any of the Vice Presidents and have a good conversation with them. Deem would learn a few things to his benefit.  Seminary can be idealistic and if he really wants to serve the community they can help him see where he could do the most good, instead of what he has been doing.  Johnson Bank has always been interested in the prosperity of the City of Nicholls and has generously donated to his campaigns for mayor.  \par
\par
He shifts tactics. Mayor Southwark encourages Deem to have the Ranch allow Johson Bank to send a treasure hunting team to the Ranch, but even better, if he could talk to the Pollers and have them tell him or meet people up in Harrisonville for a discussion about it.  The Mayor hints that he is afraid that "outside forces" may provide some encouragement until    they give up the gold and the diamond.  They would at least like the Poller boy and his parents to come in and talk.  Deem has no idea and has never heard that anyone knows anything about a diamond.   He has only heard rumors about the gold.  The mayor tells him about the gold coins.  Deem explains that his purpose at the Ranch is pastoral and has nothing to do with gold.  The mayor says if he is concerned about their welfare out there, he should find out about the gold and report back to him as soon as possible. Things could go much smoother for everyone if the Ranch would sell Kikker Industries.  He has heard there is an interested party.  Ranch people are sadly uninterested in their own welfare, it would seem.  The mayor has to consider everyone's good, and things could go badly for everyone in Nicholls County if they do not sell Kikker Industries.  He is sure Deem understands and is a reasonable person. Perhaps he just needs some time to think it over and realize how reasonable this is. The Mayor is trembling. Mayor Soutwark finally throws him out.    "I will hand it to you. You are made of iron, my man."  "I am not your man," Deem replied, "But thank you."   \par
\par
On exiting Deem sees Weed sitting, waiting for the mayor.  He realizes Weed is an informant - the mayor is angry that Weed came earlier than he should have.  "Futz don't know you're paying me for news," Weed says while Deem is still in hearing. \par
\par
\par
Eliot, who chased Isaiah and Seth and saw Harry die, shows up at Dennis Opp's house.  Dennis is suspicious but agrees to talk to him.  Eliot heard the voice that Seth heard and felt what he could only describe as horror in that ravine, like something evil, out of a horror movie was there.  He's scared and needs to talk, had seen Dennis as his judge on a case where he had been merciful to Eliot, has no one else to turn to.  He is on the run.  Johnson has all his money and Eliot is afraid he will take vengeance for not returning with the treasure or Isaiah at least. Dennis hears Eliot out: the prairie fire had been deliberately set to burn down Snake Woods, on Johnson's orders. Any collateral damage to the Ranch would be find with Johnson. \par
\par
Dennis wonders Johnson is attempting to touch the apple of God's eye in setting himself against the Ranch. Dennis tells Eliot he is also in trouble with God.  Eliot knows it.  He just knows it. So nervous he is sweating. \par
\par
Eliot has nowhere to turn.  Dennis leads him to Christ. Now the pig is friendly - pig had been suspicious of him before, but now he is relaxed.  Eliot notices and Dennis tells him that Attila  is a very spiritual pig.    With a shave and a haircut and new clothes - he had had the long beard, long hair and fatigues look - he looks completely different. He must now learn the ways of the Lord, not the ways of the world.  As he had trusted and obeyed Johnson, so he must now trust and obey God.  God has grace and love, Johnson had neither.\par
\par
Nonetheless Dennis is not completely convinced that this is real.  He does not put it past Johnson to put a spy in his house.  But there is no proof and it is not yet time to see if this is wheat or weed, so he decides to wait until it is clear.\par
\par
 (A funeral and a wedding).  Note that the Pollers are no longer in the burned out Warren.\par
 \par
Despite everything, the Nicholls Epper Church closes.  Deem weeps. Eppers founded their church in the 1870s - they had attempted a colony on land somewhere northeast of Nicholls, but the land could not sustain their settlement: there had been a church here for 150 years.   \par

\pard\ltrpar\li1440\par

\pard\ltrpar Deem discovers his amensuensis will be arriving from the denominational headquarters.   Most people attend out at the Ranch, which isn't all that far anyway.  Arson takes out both the little clapboard church and the bigger Epper church, which once again is empty.  \par
\par
Deem rescues Skittles. church at the funeral parlor. \par
\par
the resurrection at the funeral parlor: John Bread. \par
\par
As a result of that untoward and questionable event, the resurrection of John Bread, during a sermon, the denomination sends out someone to be Deem's amensuensis (Matt Kracht). Deem is not told he is being investigated. \par
\par
Flat tires in the middle of the night.  Broken windows in town.  Intruders when elders are gone. Deem's apartment is ransacked by someone looking for something.  \par
\par
\par
  Ranch and Nicholls grow to accept each other : enemy: the Boss.  Deem is respected both at the Ranch and in town, among the Marines.  \par
\par
April Bread, who thinks of Ellen as some sort of long-lost relative and thus a legitimate target for this sort of thing, gives Ellen a speech about how both she and Deem are losers and two unmarried losers, if they marry, are in a loser marriage, and she is too unstable and he is a pastor and so she is not worthy to marry him, and he should not court from here. He should have been married already.  Simple fact.  She is furious.  The 'holy corrector' backs off and apologize. Deem may not have been courting her before, but he is now. This speech has the opposite effect of intent.\par
\par
Ranch and Nicholls come together against the greater threat of the Boss and his attempted destruction of both Nicholls and the Ranch. \par
\par
 \ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
 It seems Johnson is furious that the town cleared out the trailer court.  He vows to get rid of Deem.  Maybe he can exploit his girlfriend. \par
\par
-------------\par
Mrs. Crawford made her way along the sidewalk on South Maple.  There was another prayer meeting at the Epper church, and she did not really care that the distance was further.  It was harder in a walker, but she would do it.  They had taken away her driver's license and her only wheels were the ones on the wheelchair she now needed sometimes at home, when standing was too wearying.  \par
\par
At least the weather was nice.  It was quiet and there was no traffic along the tree-lined street.  Ahead of her she heard a van coming up, coming up too fast.  She noted the tinted windows and the lack of a license plate. No one in Nicholls owned a van. Well, the plumber did, come to think of it, but he had his name and stuff on the side. A few others, but this was none of them. She fumbled in her handbag.  She'd moved here under a different name, provided by the government, with a different backstory due to what she had done during the war.  She told people she had worked in a B-29 plant.  What she had done she could never talk about.  But maybe they, whoever they were, had found her at last.\par
\par
Down the next block the van did a U-turn and came back.  She kept walking in her slow way as it slowed down just opposite her. Yep. The side door popped open and a large man in a mask jumped out.  Her first shot hit him in the knee as he was jumping and he crumpled on the pavement with a groan as the second man landed on top of him. She shot him in the ankle, and they were both down.  Her third shot shattered the passenger window and glass went all over the driver, who was pulling away.  Her fourth shot took out the right rear tire.  It paid to visit the range once a week, she thought to herself.  With satisfaction she watched the van skid into a tree, and the driver stagger out.  He was also wearing a mask, and by now ten armed men had come out of their houses on South Maple.  The driver looked around as they approached and raised his hands in surrender.  He dropped to his knees and intertwined his fingers behind his head.\par
\par
"Don't shoot," he begged. He'd be dead by now if they had opened fire, she thought to herself.  \par
\par
Mrs. Crawford turned her attention to these two.  They were lying on each other and both were trying to get up. That was not helping them at all. \par
\par
"I own your buns, cupcakes. Who sent you?" she demanded. "You don't look like Noks. Who sent you?"\par
\par
For emphasis she waved the foot of her walker over the shot ankle. He saw it and howled.\par
\par
"Talk. I have a short way with people who try to kidnap me. Who sent you?"\par
\par
"It was -"  He wanted his ankle back.  She knew it hurt. \par
\par
"Shut up." The other one was trying to get out from under his buddy on top of him, who was afraid to move. \par
\par
"You shut up.  We're bounty hunters.  We were told to find a soft target and bring him or her in for questioning."\par
\par
"More info. Who sent you?"  She leaned onto the walker foot a tad and the foot went closer to the ankle.  His eyes went wide and almost rolled back into his head.  She had not even touched him.  What a cupcake.\par
\par
"You are no soft target, lady."  This was Cupcake #2.  \par
\par
"Looks like you picked on the wrong old lady, sonny. Who?"\par
\par
Now a police cruiser was collecting the driver.  Another cruiser was pulled over at the opposite end of the street. He then pulled up.\par
\par
"Everything under control, Mrs. Crawford?"\par
\par
"Well, except you gave them my name. You want to take these twinkies?"\par
\par
"Please," they begged,"Get us away from her."\par
\par
They took her statement.  She was five minutes late to prayer meeting, because she took time to reload.  Just in case. \par
\par
------------\par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
Dennis learns that the Boss has attempted to obtain privately (Ranch) held Kikker Industries for years but has gotten nowhere.  The Ranch has been under IRS hassle since 1976 and all records are sealed. He can get nowhere.  They won't hire anyone from outside the Ranch or Nicholls who is unknown to them, so he can't get agents sent in.  Immune to bribery, women, alcohol, blackmail, espionage, he can't find a foothold.  He had moved to Harrisonville specifically for this, and then hears about the gold.  And decides all the investigations are a way to get the Ranch shut down and the gold in his hands, even if he can't get Kikker Industries, which he still wants.   When it is clear that he cannot get the gold or Kikker Industries, he sets his mind to destroy both.  The pressure he is putting on both does not seem to be working. He will increase it.  \par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 2 Nicholls Is Taken\ulnone\b0\par
\par
The town of Nicholls rises up against Johnson.  Southwark and several city council members, along with Nicholls Bank officials, flee north to Harrisonville.  Feds also raid Johnson Bank in Harrisonville: we hear of this remotely.  No one knows where Johnson is. \par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 3 Ellen Bread\par
\par
\cf1\ulnone\b0 Deem rescues Ellen from Eddie. In the fight the bar begins burning; Ellen asks for a catsup package when Deem returns to the car, and he goes back into the burning bar, fights some of the guys again, and leaves with the catsup packet.  She asks about mustard.  He looks at her. Never mind, she says.  They leave, pursued.  They break the pursuit.      Johnson appears at the Ranch, now out of flunkies except for the one, catches Deem, Isaiah and Ellen together. He takes them to the sinkhole. \i  \i0 Johnson thinks he sees the diamond in the sinkhole and falls in.  \ul\b\par
\cf0\par
\ulnone\b0 "The cry goes up from Jerusalem" - there is a call to pray at the Ranch because of the things that are happening.  But things only get worse.  At night four bodies are dug up and the bones cast aside: someone is searching graves.  The bones are left in the sun and the wind: the Sheriff views it as a crime scene, cordons it off and leaves it like that for weeks.  One of the robbed graves is that of Karl Sallow, leader of the false prophets in the 1970s. Bones thought to be his have turned black, and they quickly decompose with a horrid stench.  Simon Brot's grave is untouched.  By the time the Sheriff makes it back with a forensic investigator, the bones have all decayed or have been scattered by wild animals. Only three skulls, and some hand and foot bones were left: little to re-bury.  As they had put a guard on the cemetary, no more graves were disturbed after that first night. Other graveyards receive nighttime visitors, but those graveyards were guarded and the visitors left before they could do anything.  One visitor left a shovel as he fled.  \par
\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0 Deem is betrayed by his amaneunsis,  who is there on behalf of the CDP and sent after the man is resurrected.\par
\par
The town-church disbands, briefly. Deem weeps uncotnrollably. The elders look at him like he is nuts.  They must have hearts of stone, not caring for the lost, for what has been, for a dead church. Something has been lost, he says, and it is right to mourn and grieve over it.  This pierces their hearts.  \par
\par
The Epper church in town starts up again, sort of like a multi-site from the Ranch.  They get their old, big building back. In the background are prayer meetings, which the elders do not attend and wonder at Deem for attending.  Prayer is fine, but don't overdo it. \par
\par
Natalie fits in here. \cf3 Does she?  How is she central to the story?\par
\par
\cf0 Deem receives a threatening phone call from an unknown.  Deem knows where the treasure is, or can find out.  Or his church is toast.  They will be in touch with him. Click. \par
\par
 The church was torched, again, in the night. This time it was burned to the ground.  From now on they meet in the high school auditorium.  There were too many to meet in the funeral home, which was now unwilling to take them after the "spectacle".\par
\par
 \par
\par
Pollers are still setting up their new house. Ellen is kidnapped by her mother, brought to Eddie (it's on the orders of Johnson, who also says he wants her for himself and no one is to touch her) and rescued by Deem, who discovers his self-defense training by the Bear has come in handy.  Weed, stoned, is discovered at Eddie's place when Deem arrives.  He is no longer welcome back at the Ranch after this. He sort of ineffectually tries to fight but wanders outside instead.\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720 "I feel so stupid," she said,"exposed, like a woman caught in adultery whose skirts are stripped off."\par
\par
"Quite the Biblical image: Hosea, I think.  But here it would seem to be a little extreme," Deem replied. "Stupidity is not faithlessness."\par
\par
"Does that really help?" Ellen looked out the window at the flat, dreary world.\par
\par
"Consider that one day they will be fully exposed, stripped, humiliated.  Their adultery against God will be exposed for the whole world to see.  We are all stupid, at times, and in this case only a few people knew about it, and I think God is using it to bring about good.  They will have no chance, ever, to feel better about their situation. Forever exposed, forever shamed, forever unable to live it down, outlast it or avoid it."\par
\par
"You preacher man, you."\par
\par
"I have dealt with a lot of shame and humiliation in my time. Believe me, I know what it feels like. I am not speaking theoretically or dogmatically, just from what I have come to realize."\par
\par
"So you can know something and not realize it."\par
\par
"Definitely. Head knowledge as opposed to it being real. Real-iz-ed. Made real.  And God is not mad at you.  Their situation is entirely different."\par
\par
"I feel sorry for my mom.  Despite everything she has done."\par
\par
"I believe it."\par
\par
"No advice, preacher man?"\par
\par
"Unsolicited advice is rarely welcome.  You already know about forgiving, praying, moving on."\par
\par
"Yes.  but now it is a little more real.  To use your word."\par
\par
"It's not my word. I didn't invent it."  \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\par
A bar fist fight scene between Ranch people and Eddie's hoods, in which the bar catches fire and is burning.  Ellen, not realizing what is happening, asks for a ketchup packet. Without a word Deem gets out of the car and goes back in, gets in ANOTHER fight in the burning building from the rack, and makes his way out.  "I don't like this brand," she says. "Live with it." he replies. She back as they leave, "Oh. This will work."\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Chapter 4 Attack on Hair Bair\cf0\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 As a precaution the Ranch has moved everyone out of the trailers.  That does not stop a 3 AM raid in which automatic rifle fire rips up the trailers, which are then set on fire. Hearing the gunfire, ex-Marines from Nicholls block Main Street and man the barricade. Ranch Security chases the shooters back over the fence, but they have vehicles and flee. Ranch Security gives chase.They attempt to knock the barricade aside with their truck, get stuck and begin shooting. They are killed.   \par
\par
All the trailers are destroyed. \par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Chapter 4 Final Chapter\cf0\ulnone\par
\par
\b0 Eddie and his goons try to find Ellen in a nighttime raid on the Ranch but are caught.  This leaves the Boss without operatives on the ground. He has people elsewhere but no one who knows the area, and he prefers that no one knows about aspects of his business beyond their immediate concern. He decides he has to handle things himself as everyone else is incompetent.\par
\par
He has Mike Smirnoff and Weed drive him in, past security, on the pretext of visiting his parents. Both are known. The boss is hidden in the back seat.\par
\par
Weed knows where to find Deem, and Ellen.  He forces them to go with Weed, Mike and him and Mike down to the sinkhole.\par
\par
----\par
Do you really think there are people God has devoted to destruction? Ellen asks Deem. As in, created specifically in order to damn them?  How does that fit in with the idea of God is love?  God is also sovereign and just, and God is love, not love is God.  Our understanding of God's love is in itself an anthropomorphism.  So we cannot really know it? Ellen asks.  We can, Deem replies, but only in a limited way.\par
\par
Johnson overhears this. If there is a God, he is welcome to damn me. I want no part of him. \par
\par
Case in point, Deem says.  Like an author, God can create a despicable character only to destroy him as part of the overall plot.  And the author may actually be fond of that character, and yet he is doomed.  We only have free will inside of the greater story. We are carrried along by all the history that has ever happened, and by the hand of God who rules and directs all things.\par
\par
You will be doing theology to your death, Johnson snarls. Better than anything else, Deem retorts. \par
\par
--\par
 If Deem doesn't come back up the sinkhole with the diamond he will shoot Ellen.  Deem looks down the long unstable slope to the hole, the bottom of which cannot be seen.  He attempts to get the gun from Johnson, who, even though he is very old, beats him with the pistol.  Mike grabs Johnson.  They wrestle and fight as they slide into the hole - I thought you were loyal - my loyalties were wrong - then I hope you die - Johnson tries to turn the gun on Mike as they slide - the gun goes off in the depths after the two are no longer visible - there is a roar as more dirt and rocks fall into the hole on top of them, and Deem and Ellen escape.  Weed is totally useless for either side here. \par
\par
 \ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
Ellen finally agrees to marry Deem. He has risked a lot for her, something no one has ever done. They walk past the cemetary and read off names from tombstones, including Simon Brot's. It gives her a sense of continuity, eternity: someday she will be buried, perhaps here.    What secrets are sealed by the lips of the dead, she wonders, and what is it I can do today that will last forever? What did they leave behind, this Ranch, and people who are forgetting who they were?  Cemetaries make her pensive. Sad so many have died already, as the Ranch is not all that old.  Many here are older than the Ranch.  They watch someone jackhammer out a grave using the old rock pick. The legendary Joyce Dunbar had found it long before either of them were born, and with the care Eppers gave equipment, it probably would outlast both of them. Would the Ranch? Such things were in God's hands, not theirs; best to keep them there in faith. \par
\par
 -------\par
 \par
 \par
how are the Ranch, Nicholls and the trailer court all in a state of crisis and how is Deem the solution to their problems by linking them? Perhaps the Council of 12 is confronted with their own authority and it overextension as Erastian and ensuing evils.  Nicholls has fossilized, the trailer court has devolved to despotism by organized crime, and the leadership model the Ranch is using (one eldership over everyone) is not working.  They want a structure, it would seem, of a bishop and presbytery and then a pastor and elders in each settlement.    But that is not clear and they certainly do not presume to create a pastor, let alone a bishop. Some settlements have created boards, but are uncomfortable calling them sessions as they want the involvement of a bishop. \par
\par
Obviously Eppers do not separate civil and ecclesiastical functions as in the WCF.  With the Eppers the church seems to have swallowed the state.  How does their dual structure of bishops and elders answer this?  It is too neat to say that the bishops handle the religious and the elders the civil matters.  Instead it is a mix.  From time to time the presbytery or the elders of a church may employ the power of the sword, never the bishop or the pastor, yet those operating as civil magistrates may not be pastors, elders or bishops. The 'administrator' such as John Cassell can hold such authority - but his office is dependent on the church.  So John is a magistrate per chapter 23.  The elders cannot order him to do anything, they can only hire and fire him, which forces them to consider everything he is doing rather than a single issue. At the same time they approve or disapprove his budget and, if necessary, line items. \par
\par
Historically administrators have been appointed by bishops, chosen by presbyteries, sessions, and even elected by and from the people of a church.  So there are administrators both at the local level and at the level of the presbytery.  Eppers have no markedformal organization above that of presbyteries. The denomination supports the seminary, relief and mission work, and committees, such as the unfortunate Committee on Doctrinal Purity. Yet there is an archbishop, and an arch-administrator, whose roles are limited to negotiating and resolving disputes, but never by decree, pronouncement or via arbitration.  Deacons typically report to the adminiistrator, and the administrator to the elders (including the pastor). The archbishop may call a conclave of all bishops at the request of any bishop, and he has no veto power.  The bishops decide what will be necessary for any issue to be approved, which can vary depending on the issue. \par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
\par
Nicholls is like Jeremiah's Judah in contrast to the trailer court's Israel or place of casting out and shame, the proud city versus those who are looked down on, many of whom are not the criminals they are thought to be over in Nicholls.  It's poor and it's where a certain element is allowed to live, but it's also where other elements live who are not wanted in the pristine city. If you don't cut it in Nicholls, either you leave the area, or you wind up there.  Deem is drawn to it. It is the third community Deem draws together as he works on police outreach to them and standard community outreach to them.  It does not all go well.\par
\par
\par
\par
The never-ending legal hassles with the feds and the state is actually a protection against Johnson, who cannot get records even as he talks to state and federal agencies.  As public citizens they recoil from his flashy, overly rich condenscension of them and gross attempts at bribery and other things that would possibly work in private industry, and have for him, but not here. He has alienated government, which he does not understand. The agencies will not help him. But the Ranch legal staff is pretty good, and he underestimates a certain Katie Poller and others as he considers this ramshackle collection of tralers (he visited the south end with Ivanovich, once, and scoffed at the church service) and figures they are no match for him.  People picked up at church that there is evil here, without specifying it is him.  In any case he is wholly unmoved, as if he were a vessel doomed to destruction.    \par
\par
auditory descriptions more than visual: conversation as the main method of description and revealing of personalities\par
 \par
depth of sin and forgiveness - maybe dealing with issues and patterns of sin, not just the actual sin but structures and choices that give rise to sin, damage in the identity: patterns of poverty, autism, homosexuality, transgenderism, racism, sexism, prejudice, alienations of all kinds. Where does grace intersect our lives? And some people make stupid decisions and reap the consequences - are there enough of them?\par
   \par
 \par
\par
   \par
\par
\par
 \par
Deem unites  the two very different cultures, the Nicholls Marines and the Ranch, which has a Jesus people hippie feel that I have not really brought out, just that they are hardworkers.  Deem makes observations about other people that really apply to himself, such as the deacon being a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief.\par
 Isaiah/Deem/Ellen??  Deem sees her as untouchable, Donna Gratia, far above him.  \par
\par
\par
 read through, continuity, repetition. irrelevant, improve focus, sharpness, interest, details; bring out characters.      self-control vs treasure should be a theme \par
Crazy Harry and the boss are parallels, on different scales.  Crazy Harry falls into the sinkhole at the end of section 2, and Deem thinks his troubles are over, not realizing that the Boss is behind Crazy Harry.   Crazy Harry should foreshadow the Boss but in contrast Crazy Harry is more of the world, and the Boss of the devil.  Perhaps Part 1 should be against the flesh, then, whether in the Christians who fight it as the redeemed do, or in the tag-alongs?\par
\tab counterpoint to treasure is renouncing the worthless, even setting counterfires \tab against the coming judgement: CH epitomizes this\par
\tab someone who is indifferent to any kind of treasure. Natalie earlier?  \par
\par
The story is disjointed.  Times don't line up. Town is too negative. The sinkhole is not tying any of these loose strands up. Some should go. There are too many unresolved questions, like how do all these things get resolved?    \par
\par
\tab there are still time sequence problems and too many loose ends\par
judgement is coming - how can we separate out the stubble and straw that will be burned up and be preserved through the fire? The prairie fire is there to express such judgement and an opportunity for Isaiah's pa to use it as an object lesson to build his life right, not on or with straw, on a solid foundation.  True treasure passes through the fire. \par
======\par
\b Ir Shalom\par
\b0 All of Ir Shalom had been arrested and deported by their former government and their land siezed; they were kicked out of wherever it was "Now incidental-there is no return" - they have a sense of exile but they have sublimated it to exile from heaven, sojourners on earth, a sense that things here are temporary that others perhaps do not share. \par
\par
}
 