{\rtf1\fbidis\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset177 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl ;\red155\green0\blue211;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green77\blue187;\red255\green255\blue0;\red0\green176\blue80;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\ltrpar\b\f0\fs22\lang1033 Table of Contents\b0\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\b Part Two\b0\par
\par
1. Isaiah Poller \par
 \i  \cf1\par
\cf0\i0 2. Deem Arrives in Nicholls\par
\par
3. Deem at Pfingsters'\par
\par
4. Isaiah and the Fire\par
\i\par
\i0 5. Deem Comes to The Ranch\cf1\i\par
\cf2\par
\cf0\i0 6. First Sunday\par
\par
7. Tony\cf2\par
\par
\cf0 8.  Return to Snake Woods\cf3\i\par
\cf0\i0\par
\b  \highlight4\b0\par
\highlight0\par

\pard\ltrpar\par
\par
 \par
\ul\b\fs32 PART TWO\fs22\par
\ulnone\b0  \par
\ul\b\par
Chapter 1 Isaiah Poller\par
\ulnone\b0\par
"Here's another worm." Eight-year-old Isaiah dangled the worm over the baby's mouth and dropped it in.  Daniel smiled happily and swallowed. Isaiah glanced over to where Mom and Mrs Doakes were talking.  They weren't watching. Lois was down the hall doing \i jongedamme\i0  things. \par
\par
"Your turn," he whispered to Jeremiah. His little brother fed Daniel another worm out of the coffee can.\par
\par
Isaiah listened to the two women. On Wednesday mornings Mrs. Doakes came over and talked and prayed with Mom-  they would get their Bibles open and you could get away with stuff when that happened. Mom was not paying attention to them: she was looking at Mrs. Doakes.  Had they noticed? No.  Something about the drought. It hadn't rained in a long, long, time.  The wells were drying up, which was fine with Isaiah because it meant he didn't have to take so many baths and there was less mopping around the house. Mrs. Doakes seemed very sad. \par
\par
"Most of the wells are going that way," Mrs. Doakes said. Going what way?\par
\par
"Dust is everywhere," she continued. So what? You could draw in it on the sides of trailers. And Isaiah did not get in so much trouble when he came home - he just had to go outside and shake off the dust.  Other times he would be in lots of trouble for coming home that dirty. He'd even rolled in the dust to see what that was like and Mom hadn't said anything more than "Go outside and dust yourself off, young man." How dirty could he get before he got in trouble, he wondered, and hoped it would not rain for a long, long time.\par
\par
"Even worship is difficult. God seems to have hidden Himself. Fellowship seems strained. Everything is dry, dry, dry."  She should try coming to children's church.  Mrs. Nills liked to use flannelboards.  Flannelboards.  The figures were really, really old, like twenty years old, even, ancient history, and Moses fell off when he was parting the Red Sea. That was as exciting as they got.  He thought about suggesting to Mrs. Doakes that she should try what he had to deal with, but he wasn't supposed to "insert himself into adult conversations or there would be consequences" as Papa put it.  Often it was more interesting to listen, anyway, as long as they thought you weren't listening. \par
\par
Time for another worm.  And Mom was saying something about God being the closest when He seemed the farthest away.  God was weird like that, but God was God and He could do what He wanted.  Or could He? Something about what God wanted to do coming out of his being.  That was a lesson recently - God could not want to do something that contradicted Who He was.  He could not want to do something bad because He was good. He could not sin because He was holy. Stuff like that. Isaiah had not understood everything, but he got that part out of it. Sunday school made him think.  When there were no flannelboards.  \par
\par
Daniel swallowed another worm.  \par
\par
"Exactly what are you two doing?" Mother demanded. The door had shut with Mrs. Doakes on the other side of it. Uh-oh.\par
\par
"We are feeding worms to Daniel." Best to tell the truth.  It would be worse if there was a coverup "often the coverup is worse than the crime" as he had learned from David and Bathsheba and Uriah.\par
\par
"How long have you been doing that? I hope this is the first time."\par
\par
Isaiah and Jeremiah looked at each other.  Daniel looked at them, too, hoping for another worm.\par
\par
"Several days, Mother," Isaiah said, lowering his head.  He only called her 'Mother' when he knew he was in trouble.\par
\par
"Several days.  Several days.  And I didn't - well, he has been sleeping better, but STOP IT. Several days.  Oh, my.  Perhaps the doctor should be consulted.  Where did you get the worms? AND DON'T DO IT AGAIN."\par
\par
"Yes, ma'am. Our greehouse."  \par
\par
Before he knew it, Isaiah found himself outside.  He has no idea what Jeremiah's fate was. 'Mortal men doomed to die', he said to himself.\par
\par
\lang9 "Now, scoot,"Mama had said.  She and his three younger brothers were going to take a nap. Isaiah, all of eight years old, had done his morning chores and his arithmetic, reading and Bible - he was starting Greek, and the Gospel of John was challenging  and he was getting energetic. But Mama wanted piece and quiet, so out he went.  Lois, their \i jongedame\i0 , was now working quietly in the kitchen.  Like many young women of marriagable age among the Eppers, she was learning to run a household from Mama, who was her Second Mother.  She already knew how to run a household from her own mother, and now she was helping Mama, assisting in the cooking and cleaning and everything that went into an Epper home.  Soon she would get married and have a household of her own.  That was just the way of it, she had told Isaiah.  \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Through the door he heard heard Mama quietly asking little Zeke why he had covered himself with butter. AGAIN.   He didn't want to stick around for what might happen next.  Despite his urgent need to get out of there, something Mom and he were in agreement on, Isaiah had opened the door carefully because he knew the big dog would be lying there at that time of day.  Boomer stopped snoring,  raised his head and thumped his tail, twice, as Isaiah stepped over him. No sense whacking him with the door.  The porch was still cool from the daily scrubbing.  But that would be about it regarding movement as far as Boomer was concerned, except maybe to eat and so forth and find a cooler place to snooze.  He was a big old mastiff acquired to herding cattle, but he was lazy, so now he was a pet. Papa said he was on guard duty, and as proof no Sumerians had ever invaded.   Mama would not have him inside.  Boomer  occupied most of the stoop while the sun was not too hot.   Now he watched Isaiah lazily on this scorching hot day, and Isaiah stuck to the shade as he made his way down the concrete path.  Later Boomer would find a shady spot or even wangle his way into the Warren somehow when Mama wasn't looking, which would be about it for him and exercise. Now, back to snoring. And drooling.\par
Isaiah wondered what Sumerians looked like today.  There were pictures in his English book. They had beards and spears and fought lions.  Maybe they were all off fighting lions, which was why they had not invaded.  Isaiah was glad they had not invaded. "Sargon the Great". He didn't know anyone named Sargon.  Were Sauron and Sargon related? Probably not, he decided.  Sargon was just a story.  Mordor was still there, somewhere southeast, maybe east of Mississippi. He wasn't sure about those foreign parts. Someday he wanted to go see Kirith Ungol. And climb Mount Doom.\cf5\f1\par

\pard\ltrpar\cf0\f0  Between the trailers it was still cooler than out in the sun, something that would change and the path would be too hot to walk on barefoot later in the day, when the sun pounded heat into it.  Isaiah looked up at the brightly colored praise flags, most with words embroidered, all with Biblical themes: Joy, Praise, Grace, Faith, or pictures: sheep, trumpets, a rainbow, or Hebrew or Greek words or phrases.  All were motionless in the hot sun, even above the roofs. No wind, not even up there. Whoever had made the one with the sheep had made it so that it looked like the sheep was running when there was wind, but today it was a droopy hot sheep.\f1  \f0\lang1033\par
\par
He wandered around the trailers. Papa said there were twenty left.  He was not allowed to go  where trailers had been, and pipes stuck up out of the ground, even though they were down in a hole.  It was kind of fun because it was like a maze and you could get lost.  And people had done things with the trailers, because they had lived in them a long time.  No two were alike.  Some had stone over the trailers like a second skin; some had porches; some, like the Warren, were several trailers stuck together to make a bigger house and sometimes things were built onto them.  Mostly they'd been painted white for the summer.  They got painted black during cold weather - it had something to do with the sun, but Isaiah didn't know what.  There was a big area where trailers used to be, but that wasn't as interesting, and it was all in the sun.\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 Next to the Warren was Boom's.  Mr. Boom always had time to talk to Isaiah, though he had a press of work, as he said.  He had two trailers joined together, one to live in and one to work in.   Isaiah was allowed to open the door and go into the work trailer.  He hummed as he passed through the shelves, two feet deep, two feet of walking space, then four feet of shelves, then there was another narrow passage way, then two more feet of shelf across the twelve foot trailer, the shelves crammed floor to ceiling with all sorts of broken things in need of repair or that had something of interest.  He remembered this because it had been a math problem: how wide was the trailer? 2+2+4+2+2=12.  Or if he knew how wide the trailer was, and it was 14 feet wide, how wide was the second aisle?   He popped out of the shelves into the work area with benches and tools and neat things like that in the trailer.   Mr. Boom was watching over the shoulder of his older teenager who was his apprentice; other man worked for Mr Boom.  Mr. Boom was tall and thin and had no hair, except for a moustache and eyebrows that seemed to go everywhere, all white.  The moustache fascinated Isaiah because it stuck straight out, like Mama's hairbrush glued to a human lip or something. Sometimes his eyebrows stuck out like that, but today only the right one did; the other just sort of went everywhere. \par
Isaiah inhaled the Boom-smell, a mixture of oil and metal.  Mysterious things had been heated and soldered.  Isaiah liked the sharp smell, so different from cooking or Mama or the dog.  Papa smelled that way, sometimes, when he came home, depending on what he did that day. The three were talking, and four different arguments were going on at the same time.  It was like that around here a lot.  Isaiah was not allowed to solder.  The list of things Isaiah was not allowed to do was a lot longer than he would like, and it always seemed to be getting longer as he found out about new things.  There was "welding" which was a mystery he was not allowed anywhere near. It was mentioned.  So was the Labor Day picnic, which was more American than Epper. And there was the right way to fix a can opener sitting there, open and exposed, helpless in the middle of surgery. At least one more overlapping discussion was weaving its way through the others, but Isaiah did not follow it at all. \par
"We did things that way because it was right! People figured it out and then we didn't have to figure it out again!" this was Mr. Boom's voice, booming at his apprentice.  Isaiah used to think there was a connection.  But he had been ten Boom in Holland, and now he was just one Boom. Most Eppers dropped those funny little words like "van" and "ten" when they came to America. So he was Mr. Boom.\par
"But God speaks today."\par
"But the old ways don't always apply. Things change, Mr. Boom."  this was Josiah,  the non-apprentice.\par
"And how do you know He is speaking? Do you seek Him, or does He speak on His own initiative? I fear presumption here, deadly presumption. It is one thing to be open to the gifts, the other to be open to all supernatural phenomenae uncritically!"\par
"So we figure it out, again, like we did the first time. Don't just throw it out because it is old and you don't know why! New is not always better!"\par
"We must trust the Lord and allow Him to speak as He wishes."\par
"That's not what I'm saying. Not at all."  \par
"The canon is closed. Not one word is to be added to Scripture!"\par
"But there is prophecy not recorded, that is to be judged by Scripture!"\par
"How can it be revelation if it is less than Scripture? How can it be the Holy Spirit if He is supposedly speaking in a sub-par manner? It seems to me that is against His dignity!"\par
"Ah, Isaiah!" Mr. Boom got up from his workbench. He had a large heavy apron and googles with magnifying lens.  He took these and his gloves off, and bent down to see Isaiah eye to eye.  The two others turned back to their benches. "Mysticism," one of them muttered, and then they were silent.\par
"Whatcha doing?"\par
"This toaster is in serious need of something.  I am not sure what.  It does not work.  With patience it will tell me its secrets, and then either it will have life again as a toaster, or we will turn it into a clock or something!"  Mr. Boom showed him the opened toaster. "The wires are fine, it seems, but it just burns toast.  The timer is not solid state, thank the Good Lord. There is nothing you can do with solid state.  I do not fix solid state. It cannot be fixed if it is solid state.  I do not have the patience for the circuit board.  People make these too complicated: who wants a programmable toaster he has to throw away? Who has time to program the toaster? Give me simple levers and we can make it run forever, but if it is solid state, it is a different matter entirely.  All we can do with those is put them up until we figure out what we can do with them. Now, Isaiah, is there a purpose to your visit? It is not to chase you off, that I ask, only it is that sometimes you are a messenger or something."\par
Isaiah liked the way Mr. Boom talked.  He was actually Dutch, although he had spoken English most of his life.  There was music in his voice, which Isaiah has pointed out once, and Mr. Boom laughed and said it was an accent.  He was from a small Epper village in the Netherlands, although he did not like to talk about it much.  Papa had told Isaiah not to ask, he would learn about it when he was older.  That was fine with Isaiah. It was a toaster, not a can opener.  They had neither one at home. Mama believed in cooking the old way, and fancy appliances had no place.  \par
"Noo, it is just Mama is resting."\par
"And you are eight.  And, you are Isaiah Poller.  And it is hot outside.  Did I show you the geothermal well?"\par
This was one of the things Isaiah really liked about Mr. Boom.  He was always doing neat things, and then showing them to Isaiah.\par
"What is a geo- geothermal well?"\par
"Ah, what does your Greek tell you about the word 'geothermal?'\par
"I don't know a word geotha."\par
"No, no.  Geo:  from ge, earth,  thermal: from thermos, heat. Earth-heat.  We can pump water down into holes and it comes back hotter or colder than water at the surface. Hotter in the winter, cooler in the summer.  It is always the same temperature down there.  Look at this." And Mr. Boom took him outside, through his back door, where there was only one step down to the gravel. Although he was old, Mr. Boom jumped down spryly. Isaiah followed him, both of them avoiding the one step.  There was a round cover with some pipes sticking out of it, and a motor. A softly-humming pump. "I am trying to see if we can heat and cool our homes with geothermal energy in a way that would make sense. You see these wires? Someone else is monitoring it. You know how cool it is in my trailers? Well, it is being heated - now, cooled - by geothermal energy.  If it works we will use it throughout the Ranch. Feel it."\par
Isaiah touched the cover where he was told to.  It was cool. He compared it to the ground. It was actually cooler on the cover.  Mr. Boom carefully replaced the cover. Mr. Boom stepped back up into the trailer and Isaiah followed. Neither used the step.  Mr. Boom  smiled. "That can be your word for the day. "Geo-thermal."\par
Isaiah already had ten Greek words for the day, to memorize and use until he was comfortable with them.  But he politely gave thanks.\par
"Now, I am afraid we have a lot of work going on.  And this evening we are going to do some aluminum casting, if you would like to come and watch. Check with your parents, first, and we have to get ready for that. I wish I had more time for you today."\par

\pard\ltrpar Isaiah headed to the Hanger, which was a big open building , the last in a line of hangers, where workmen stripped everything out of old trailers for reused or salvage.  It was also the last in the line, because the others had been torn down and their metal parts taken somewhere underground, like a beetle dismembered by ants and taken into the nest in a picture book they had at home.  Much of the settlement was underground.  His own family lived in the Warren because Papa said they would be the last to move out of a trailer.   He could also find something to do or climb, most of the time, and sometimes they would even let him help with the work.  He could collect screws if they were removing siding, or sweep if they were doing something that generated a lot of dust. Idleness was the devil's playground, he had been taught, and there was a lot of work to be done, always, everywhere. The trouble was, a lot of it needed more strength and skill than he had.  Just a matter of time. But there was always something to do, even in this last trailer with its row of half-cut up trailers and its other row of power saws and tool cabinets. The Hanger was tall, and he had been told not to climb it.  Next to it was the last of the greenhouses, as farming was being moved underground.  There had been a row of them, a long row, but they had been cut up and removed, with their parts stored somewhere in the tunnels under Hair Bair.  They had lots of tunnels, Papa said, and the Warren was not the warren that Hair Bair was.  Isaiah was still working on that.  It meant he lived in the Warren, but...something. There were some big rooms underground but not much to climb on, but the houses cut into the quarry wall were very nice, anyway. Sometimes he would go with Papa through some of the tunnels when Papa was working - there were always pipes on one side, and a place you could drive a motor buggy on the other.  You would come to thick doors and you would go through them, and if you went through enough of those doors you could hear them drilling off in the distance, making the tunnels longer.  They sold the rock, Papa said.  They used to build with it but that had changed. "Life changes," Papa has said. "You think it will go one way and then it goes another."\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Old Silas was slowly sweeping with the big floor broom - the one Isaiah got to use when Silas was somewhere else. Silas was past lifting anything heavy. He dressed like he always did, in a suit. He often said he was ready to be buried and that would save someone the trouble of changing his clothes.  He was looking forward to the afterlife, but there was nothing morbid about it - he had a twinkle in his eye and was happy at the idea of seeing God face to face,  and hearing His Voice, and the relief from bodily weariness and pain and weakness.   If he got a chance, he would lecture you for a long time on whatever came to mind, particularly on seeking first the Kingdom of God.   Silas was interesting to listen to.  He'd fought in a war, traveled around the country as a hobo, lived homeless on the street, lived in a rescue mission, worked as an unskilled laborer, and had wound up on the Ranch.  He had arrived when the place started up, just another bum looking for a handout, but one who slowly found himself willing to work.  He had seen it all, allowed it to percolate for years, and with the wisdom of the Good Book, was ready and willing to dispense his hard-won wisdom.  He was prepared to die, even though at ninety-five he still woke up at four am and worked until ten pm, six days a week.  He had given everything he had away and slept in the small room he kept in an old dilapidated trailer, one of the first that had arrived when they had had to deal with six thousand people descending on the place, a trailer that had seen heavy use and abuse.   He drank water and ate two pieces of bread and an apple every day. He admired the cenobites (Isaiah loved that word, cenobite, it sounded neat) of old, although those guiding him had ruled out a hair shirt and chains years ago when he had suggested it.  He was waiting to go see Jesus. He was ready and willing and had made his peace with the world and everyone in it, holding nothing against anyone and not causing anyone any grief of note.  He would wake in the morning and sigh, and then say, "thank you, Lord, for another day. You know what you are doing, keeping me here. You must have your reasons." And then, off he would go about the day's work.  He was not of this world, and his thoughts were mostly of the other.  Silas was interesting to listen to, but sometimes Isaiah did not understand what he was talking about, and sometimes he was scary, sometimes funny. And you never knew what he would say.  He would tell you he was mostly on the other side, just a step away.\par
Silas was sometimes found outside, staring into the sky.  What are you looking at? Isaiah once asked him.  "Oh, I'm just looking at Jesus sitting on His throne," he replied, and then returned to what he had been doing.  Isaiah looked up to where Silas had been looking, but he saw nothing but empty sky. "Huh," he had said, "Huh."\par
\par
The last trailer was the only one being stripped, already partly down to the steel frame.  Two men with masks were stripping out the insulation from what had been the kitchen wall.\f1\par
\f0 Matt was one of the two men.  Although he was a teenager, he counted as a man. Isaiah was eight, so he was almost a teenager, so he was also counted as a man, although no one seemed to see it that way. Isaiah liked to remind himself of that fact. Matt, fifteen, would have argued with this. Isaiah climbed up the side and sat on the steel next to Matt, not using the ladder.  It was a point of pride with Isaiah to not use ladders. Matt was up on a step ladder inside the trailer and was cutting out insulation. Under a ball cap he had a mask under his goggles and heavy gloves and heavy overalls on. He looked like he was a spaceman.  This impressed Isaiah immensely.  Matt was not that much older than Isaiah, but capable of doing a man's work.  But now Matt looked like a real grown-up. He had gotten his height and his shoulders were beginning to widen and strengthen.  Next year, Isaiah told himself, he would look like that. Papa was big, so it was possible.  Maybe he would be taller than Matt next year. And stronger. \f1\par
\f0 Micah was talking about Julie, a girl who had left the Ranch the day before.  Both Micah and Matt had liked her, although she was in her twenties.  She had yelled at Elder Yarrock before leaving. \par
"What's pat-ri-arch-i-al-op-pres-sion?" Isaiah asked, pronouncing the new word carefully.  Matt looked blank. \par
"Sorry, Isaiah. Watch the knife. I don't have anything for you right now. Silas is sweeping the place to make sure no insulation wanders off. We are doing light work today because of the heat."\par
After a minute Matt asked him, "What do you want?"\par
"I don't know.  I'm looking for Papa."  It was always interesting to shadow Papa. "What do YOU want?" \par
"Oh. Girls. Gold. Glory." Matt grinned under his mask. Isaiah could see the smile around his eyes.  There had been a recent sermon about those three particular dangers in the life of a man.\par
\f1 "Julie's gone, Matt." Micah chimed in.\par
"Girls? Yech. And Gold? Not interested. And glory? That is God's alone." Isaiah replied.\par
"Wait until you're older."\par
Silas was drawn by this. "Not a thing to be joked about, Matt and Isaiah. Such frivolity and levity.  Many have fallen to those three things. Many lives ruined. I have known good men who have fallen for those. Lives ruined. Marriages ruined. Prison. Pride. Despair." He moved off, muttering. "Do not be enamored of the things of this world. There are better things coming, far finer things, things that eye has not seen nor ear heard, prepared for the Lord's beloved. The day is coming.  Yes, the day is coming.  Come quickly, Lord Jesus. Here I am, Lord."   Silas suddenly turned around and raised his hand, palm outward, towards Matt.\par
"You're not after a theology of glory, I hope. But a theology of the CROSS?"   Sometimes Isaiah had no idea of what Silas was talking about.\par
"I never found those spiral stairs," Matt said. "I never looked.  God came down to us. We do not ascend to Him. Not by our efforts. Grace, man."\par
"Me, neither." Micah was usually silent, but apparently felt provoked.  Isaiah didn't know him very well.\par
"I should hope not.  That's why they cleared out the Mathom House." Silas was ready to roll. You could tell.  "It used to be people would go in those narrow aisles and find a staircase -sometimes - and strange things would happen."\par
"What sorts of things?"\par
"Things no human should see.  At least not on earth.  Some said it was the beatific vision. That got the concern of the elders.  The Word - mind you, the WORD, comes, and faith comes by hearing.  We walk by faith, not by SIGHT.  We don 't have some upper-story experience to see God.  And those people all claimed to see Him, they were all ALONE. We know God together, in community, not on some strange not-always-there mezzanine you reach by a spiral stair."\par
"The elders never condemned it."\par
"And none ever found the stairs, either.  That is something to consider, and to regard as a warning."\par
"In what way, then, Silas?" Isaiah had trouble understanding Silas sometimes.\par
"What are you afraid of, Silas?" Matthew wanted to know.\par
"I am not afraid. But I do not want the people of God led astray by visions and things that are not confirmed by the elders, either."\par
"The elders chose to neither confirm or condemn those experiences."\par
"Something to think about," Silas muttered, "Just something to think about. That is what I am saying." And he moved off, muttering and sweeping.  \par
Then he was back. "Absolute certainty? Seeing the face of God? Those are not things for now. We walk by faith, not by sight.  Demanding total proof and demanding that we KNOW with absolute certainty is idolatry. Idolatry, my friend. We walk by faith.  The ear hears whatever is there, the eye commands what it sees and chooses.  Our faith is a faith of HEARING not SIGHT."  Silas was not satisfied that he had made his point, and the whish-shwish of his broom resumed.\par
Matt and Isaiah looked at each other. \par
"Where's my papa?"\par
"Sorry, I don't know.  And you need to stay away from insulation, pardner. This stuff is bad news if you breathe it in. I am afraid I will have to ask you to leave.  You don't want it on you, either."\par
"Awww."  Isaiah climbed down and stood about ten feet away, close to the wide open door. He WAS leaving. \par
"How come the fan's not on?" It was a big old box fan, taller than Isaiah.  Like a lot of other things, it had been made from recycled trailer parts, although the craftsmanship was better than store bought. Ranch-made was well-made, carefully crafted, strong and pleasing to the eye with a spare beauty.\par
"We don't want this stuff blowing around. Now, go."\par

\pard\ltrpar Isaiah looked around for a moment. No Papa. \f0\lang1033\par
\par
Isaiah looked at Quarryface Wall Topside.  He was not allowed near it.  On the other side of it was a three-story drop.  Into the limestone face below tunnels had been cut, and now houses were in those tunnels, with big windows in the front, three levels deep.  Down at the bottom was Quarry Pond.  It was always cool there, so he headed down Quarryface steps and found himself near the pond.  He went down the ramp, farther than he had ever gone before.  He imagined the motorbuggies full of rock going up the ramp and going back down empty.  He looked at the turn where they used to have a big post and somehow they had pulled the buggies up and down with something called a cable, but it was more than he could figure out, like a lot of things. Agatha, for example. She was his age and she liked to write stories.  He liked her and he hoped she liked him.  But he did not understand her.  Maybe he would, when he was older.   At water's edge he laid down with his arms over the side of the ramp and stuck his arms in the water.  No fish.  The water was clear and he could see the next turn of the ramp down into the water, and part of the turn after that, but there the water was dark. The fish must have gone deep, and even the water was warm.  He had had to go way down the ramp.  It was dark and deep down there.  How close was it to the center of the earth down there anyway?  From here he could looked up at the spillway and then at the Quarryface houses.   This used to be a quarry, he told himself.  He imagined the wagons and the drills. Chugga-chugga-chugga. He had a book with a steam digging machine.  Chugga-chugga-chugga.  He dug some water out with his hand, splashing.  Chugga-chugga-chugga.  He wished Agatha was there.  She never was, though, and he never invited her, either. Liking her was his secret. \par
\par
"Isaiah Poller,what are you doing?" It was Mrs. Greene's voice, somewhere overhead.\par
\par
"Nothing, ma'am," he said. He stood up and looked up at her. He wiped his wet hands on the back of his pants, and then remembered he wasn't supposed to do that.  Mrs. Greene was up behind the little fence at the edge of her yard, one Isaiah was not allowed to climb. She had a small yard before her house, and below the fence the cliff-face dropped down another fifteen feet to where the next house was, giant stairs cut into the cliff. Two small figures stood with her, one on each side.  Elizabeth clutched her mother's skirt with one hand and sucked her thumb with the other. Ben, her twin, stared down at Isaiah, open mouthed. After a minute he stuck his thumb in his mouth, too, and stared some more.  \par
\par
"Well, I think you had best be doing nothing somewhere else. The pond is no place to play, especially alone.  It's best you be on your way."\par
\par
"Yes ma'am," he called back.  So up the ramp he climbed, his arms quickly drying, but he turned off where the spillway was.  Mrs. Greene was still watching him.  Papa said it was a weir, not a spillway, but Isaiah called it a spillway. Anyway in wet weather it was a creek that went off east,a creek that had been cut in the rock, and there was some good climbing on parts of the walls.  And no one could see him! It was dry, anyway.\par
\par
It was cool there, cooler than up in the sun, and he climbed happily for a while until he got bored. The walls got lower as he walked along, sometimes past metal doors and pipes that were set in the side of the side of the canyon, the doors higher up and the pipes lower, always under rock overhangs, and he got to where there was no shade. Instead of heading back down the spillway he cut left and walked over the open fields back towards Hair Bair, which was further away than he would have thought.  This ws rocky flat land with scrawny grass and a few trees here and there struggling to make it.  \par
\cf2\f1\lang9\par
\cf0\f0 Here was a ventilation shaft.  It was cleverly disguised to look like a pile of rock.  It was no taller than he was.  He'd been told not to climb these things.  He looked at it.  He could not \i climb\i0  it.  No, that had included \i staying off \i0 it. When he was a kid he used to find ways to do things that did not really mean he was being disobedient.  But he had received a lecture on 'obeying the spirit of the law and not just the letter'.  That meant mainly that he got instructions using every word they could find to describe it: he was not to touch, climb, get on, walk up, and he was told to stay off, stay away, keep off, and keep away from the ventilation shafts.  Papa had taken him to the top of one once, where the vents came out of the rock. Sometimes they had to be cleaned. You could see a little biit further from the top of one than you could on the ground. He wanted to look a long, long way. Maybe he could see Mount Doom, which was somewhere to the southeast.  Or the Empire State Building, to the northeast.  Over in the west was the Golden Gate Bridge.  All worth seeing, if he could get high enough. But if you climbed these things, you could disturb the rocks, which was little kid stuff. He was too old to go disturbing the rocks.  "I'm eight, now," he said to himself,"too old for kid stuff."\f1\par
\par
\f0 He turned and looked towards home, and in case anyone was watching, he moved away from the pile, just in case.  Even the Hanger was tiny.  This was a long way from home.  Papa said much of Hair Bair had been moved underground, including the church, the schools, and offices. Underground facilities had natural light through sky lights, mirrors  and walk-outs.  Papa said they always worried about water, but the limestone here was good and they found ways to drain it. There was electricity, because of something called a reactor he was not allowed anywhere near and he was not supposed to know anything about, but Papa had mentioned it once, and Isaiah put the pieces together.  Somehow the reactor made sure there was electricity, but it did not burn wood.  And the reactor was not here - it was up north, and some of the tunnels were not for living in but just for moving stuff, like electricity.  \par
\par
Not everything was underground, after all.  There was the hanger, or rather the top of it.  Suddenly he thought about climbing it. You could probably see pretty far from up there.  But there was the greenhouse, even taller, right next to it. Instead of a straight climb up to the roof, there were the corners, and then there was the roof, all at an angle.  It would have to be done in the early morning, before it got hot.  Hot metal in the sun was too hot to hold onto. \par
\f1\par
\f0\lang1033\par
 \par
 [Ranch Isaiah Poller sequence], then giving the reader a tour, , as he wandered around Ha'ir Bair, which he calls Hare Bare, two syllables. Some people called it Ir Habira. It was Hebrew, and nobody knew if it was supposed to mean the capital city or the bright city. \par
\par
Among other things he sees the old foundation of the stable. It had burned down years ago. Papa said it had been a real work of art, the masterpiece of a master craftsman. Someone named Paul had built it long ago.  Boom's trailers had places where you walked on boards because the particle board floor failed.  He liked it like that because he used the space underneath for storage. His trailers were wearing out, too.  Soon they all would be. Many were already cut into pieces and were being used - cannibalized - cannibalized: he liked that word.  Cannibalized.  \par
\par
Isaiah watched as one of the wild donkeys - they had escaped captivity years ago, and proved too cunning to be caught - got up on the ridge opposite and sniffed for grass, then disappeared down the other side.\par
\par
He heard a train on the the Katy RR, which ran along the west side of Nicholls County, a quarter mile east of the state line. Foot access to the west side is possible via large culverts and bridges.  His Papa once put him in a motorbuggy and they bumped their way to a hilltop, where they looked down and watched a train, full speed, hurtling down the tracks.  Papa told him to stay off railroad bridges because you never know when they may show up and you can get caught and killed. In fact, never go on railroad tracks, ever. Don't even go close. \par
\par
 \par
On Friday morning Isaiah climbed the greenhouse partly to show off to Agatha Pflumm, but mostly to see if he could see Snake Woods, somewhere else he was forbidden from going near. [Isaiah climbs a greenhouse] Agatha was the same age as Isaiah, but she was inside, writing her stories.  She wrote in a beautiful, clear, rounded feminine script with the potential for calligraphic brilliance when she wais older,  in a variety of scripts based on the calligraphy books she had been given. She told  stories about tea parties, as she had since before she could read, involving Rag Doll, Teddy, the Cat, and the Purple Unicorn. Sometimes the Yelllow Unicorn.  They had dull, moralizing conversations about whatever Scripture or moral lesson Agatha had been exposed to that day. Her mother filed them neatly in folders and in file boxes. Rag Doll, in particular, exhorted against the waste of time and laziness and for 'good, honest labor and industry'. In support of that Agatha was only allowed to write for fifteen minutes a day, as most of her time was indeed taken up in good, honest labor and industry.  Teddy moralized on the virtues of thrift and honesty.  The Cat was lazy and never seemed to get the lessons often directed at her. Teddy was fond of keeping your hands off what belonged to others, not being a thief and not stealing.  Above all do not steal glory from God.  She liked to have Teddy list all the ways you could steal glory from God, like self-praise, not-trusting, not-loving what He has made, wastiing time, over-eating, not giving thanks in all things.  \par
\par
The dogs were aware of the unseen boundaries of their own territories and did not cross into other territories unless ordered to.  They were aware of course of who belongs to their own settlement.  Other people from the Ranch were tolerated but could expect several curious dogs to sniff them and accompany them.  People they have been introduced to usually were tolerated, but strangers got barks, growls, even up to an escalation of attacks if they do not leave.  If they threatened the dogs or Ranch people the dogs would not hesitate. They were trained to take down and immobilize although fully capable of killing.  Isaiah's dog stopped at a certain point and barked as Isaiah and Jeremiah headed for Snake Woods, then returned home.\par
\par
\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0 Isaiah  fought the fire at his father's side.\par
\par
\par
He and Jeremiah went down to what was left of Snake Woods, which had been burned out.  He found many bones, human and animal, in Snake Woods.  He may have been the first to ever explore it. Jeremiah found a hole with a tree sticking out of it.  He climbed down it and landed on a shelf as the tree fell further  He found  coins in the hole and climbed out even as the hole was collapsing and expanding.  He went to Butler's in Nicholls and bought a banana split with 1865 coins, telling the boy behind the counter to keep the change.  He left a stunned crowd there staring at the coins.  Once outside, they came out chasing him and he lost the people chasing him by his climbing ability.  He was interviewed in his home by the Sherriff, someone on the Council of 12, and his father.  \ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0\par
"We took down Greenhouse Two today," Papa told Katy, with Isaiah overhearing. \par
\par
\cf2\f1\lang9 Drainage was always an concern -  they never depended on pumps to keep these structures dry, which could pose a challenge in the flat terrain.  They took what advantage they could of the terrain.  The old trailers were still partly occupied, and the hangers were being torn down starting at the west end.   after limestone mining cleared space, as if earth-sheltered.  In 2016 the old hangers were being stripped.  What residential housing there was above ground, aside from the trailers and a few small wood frame houses was locally cut stone. \par
\par
Other settlements do not necessarily follow that as a pattern, whether from preference, custom, geography or availability.  Hair Bair is in an unusually good limestone area without faults. \par
\cf0\f0\lang1033\par
\par
"Is there really that much ground underground - I mean, in the tunnels of course?"\par
\par
"Yes. I figure this settlement alone has about two hundred acres at present down there, and they aren't done yet."\par
\par
"I don't know.  It seems odd to me to be eating everything grown hydroponically."\par
\par
"Well, the ground won't do much here.  And the greenhouses were too expensive to keep up. People have been trying to grow plants for decades here."\par
\par
"I understand the Muellers gave up, long ago. That was over a century ago."\par
\par
"Yes.  But we get no bugs underground.  No plant diseases blow in. No frost and no heat.  It's a cool 56 degrees down there, away from the heaters, year round.  Some plants, such as cabbage and kale, do well without the heaters. Others need it. We now know the crops take less work down there, are less expensive, and the quality is better than above ground.  Someone over in - I can't think of where - but someone, down south on the Ranch - someone is working on improving the grow lights.  The ones we have now have a range very close to that of natural light, but they are working on improving it.  Some kind of LED.  I don't know much about it."\par
\par
"I don't know if I could ever get used to being underground."\par
\par
"The houses have big windows, you know."\par
\par
"Yes."\par
\par
"And we've been through more than one storm here in the Warren where we wished we were underground."\par
\par
"There is that."\par
\par
"No heating bills, no air conditioning bills - I'm looking forward to it, even if we are the last ones down there.  And I promised that."\par
\par
"How many families are still up here?"\par
\par
"Six or so.  Other people feel like you do.  Not cave critters, I guess."\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
"Did you see a diamond? Any bones?"\par
"No," Isaiah replied,"I mean, no diamond.  There were lots of bones, You couldn't walk without stepping on something."\par
"Any shiny rock?"\par
"It was kind of dark. I saw the coins, and there were snakes down below where I was. But no shiny rock."\par
"What about insects? Were there bugs? Biting flies?"\par
"No," Isaiah said,"People say there are some down there. But I didn't see any. Maybe they got all burned up."\par
The men looked at each other. "Maybe we should send someone down there to look at it, survey the situation."\par
"We'll need authorization from DNR to enter that area."\par
"It's burned. Do you think we still do?"\par
"They've been very adamant in the past. I think we need to contact them first."\par
"How long do you think that will take?"\par
"Maybe a couple of weeks."\par
\par
\par
The Council of Twelve responded to the fire with call for a Joel 1:19 prayer meeting and thanksgiving service for all settlements.  But the fire started south of Ha'ir Bair and did not touch settlements in the far south.  It started on Ranch land.  Although it swept passed Nicholls, it did not reach the Cass County line. There was rain to the north. \par
\par
Isaiah's Papa was working on replacing Pump #5 in Ha'ir Mayam.  That pump burned out from overruse. (They had previously lowered it using wooden beams, which had splintered, and replaced that with iron beams, which is why he was involved - and, as happens, the accessway had become cluttered, including with a small stone building, and the well was also collapsing: the stone walls were poorly laid a long time ago, maybe in the War, so the building had to come down). It was  one of the few remaining wells at Ha'r Mayam that had been drilled during the war and later reopened by persons unknown, who had lined it with limestone blocks in the remote past for some distance down.  Twenty feet at least, because that was as deep as anyone had gone in Pa's time here - usually there was water rising to that point, but now all the limestone blocks were exposed.   Ha'ir Bair was importing water from here.   The wells were now marginal and there was talk of drilling deeper wells or even another well field elsewhere, but that cost money and no decision had been made.  The wells were marginal. All rain barrels were empty.\par
\par
Water trucks came daily to Ha'ir Bair and even to Ha'ir Mayam.  Isaiah was watched - he had been told to stay off the water trucks, and they are not convinced he will obey.  He did not appreciate not being trusted with this. Water was  rationed, and Mama had not scrubbed the steps for several weeks, and Isaiah's clothes were getting itchy because they had not been washed for a long time, at least not with water that had not been used for baths already. \par
\par
Katie Poller discussed with her husband what to do about the regulatory fines they were faced with, and a letter they  received.  It was a friendly-sounding offer to loan them the money to pay all their fines, using the Ranch as collateral.   Tempting, but Eppers do not take on loans from outsiders, and the Johnson Bank always seemed interested in the Ranch in an uncomfortable way.  How did Johnson Bank know about the fines?  Probably public information, but this was not the first time they received such a letter. It is like that bank is monitoring their problems with the federal and state regulatory agencies.  Katy will recommend that The Council of 12  not  accept the offer.  Katie is uneasy with the letter from the bank. They do not even have an account there.  The Ranch has a checking account at the Bank of Nicholls, which come to think of it is owned by the Johnson Bank, but why are they so interested in this?\par
\par
Papa told her about the death of the Nicholls Hardware Store owner.  It seemed he had gotten into debt way over his head with Johnson Bank and he had killed himself last night. Johnson Bank was now directly taking over Nicholls Hardware.  Someone had gone in there today to buy lumber and had been told they had been instructed not to sell anything to the Ranch, or to anyone from the Ranch. That was about the fifth business in Nicholls now like that. "I don't like the sound of that." "No. I wonder what their ultimate aim is.  I think their ultimate aim is to take over the Ranch." "A lot of people have been thinking that." \par
\par
There were also some soft spots on the floor of the bathroom - particle board was  giving way. "The Warren is wearing out.  These trailers are old. It's not the first floor that has softened that we have replaced - remember the kitchen, two years ago?" "I  put my foot through it then - that's how we found it. I was moving something heavy - we were between jongedammen, and you were pregnant.  It was a big pot of water, very heavy. It was cold but it went everywhere."  They laughed at the memory. \par
\par
\par
It was a windowless room in the basement of the Bank of Nicholls. There were three metal chairs, two on one side and one on the other of the old grey table.  A man in his late twenties sat on one side. On the other was an employee of the Bank of Nicholls, and a man from HR who had come down from Harrisonville to conduct the interview, as Johnson Bank had bought the Bank of Nicholls some time ago. The man from Harrisonville held a folder. There was no chit chat - the Nicholls employee smiled and said, "Any Marine in Nicholls is welcome." The man from Harrisonville looked at him, and turned to the interviewee. "I see you spent most of your time in the stockade." "Yes." "Why should we hire you for anything?" Silence. "Tell you what.  We are looking for an employee.  You will get $40,000 a year, use of a car, medical insurance and free housing. And a clothing allowance.  Sounds good?" "Yes." "Only you will do whatever we tell you, and you will not talk about it to anyone else. Is that understood?' He nodded. "And we mean it when we say 'whatever'. Do you understand that?" He nodded again. "Now, we have this file on you." The man from Harrisonville tapped the folder. "It seems you could go right back into the stockade, maybe to Leavenworth, for life.  Or you could do whatever, and I do mean whatever we tell you, instantly, without thinking about it. You learned that in the Marines, right?" The young vet nodded. "No one wants Leavenworth to happen, but I strongly suggest - strongly suggest - you not cross us on anything. D'ya understand?" "Yes, sir," he said, and he knew he was trapped. "If anyone asks you where you work, don't tell them. Tell us who they are and we will take care of the problem." "I don't even know who I'm working for. The Bank of Nicholls?" "Look, kid, I know you are new. Don't be slow on the uptake. I will only say this one time. Your job is not to ask questions. Do you want the job?" "Yes, sir." "We will tell you what you need to know. Understand?" "Yes, sir." "All right, then." \par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 2 Aaron Muis  \par
\par
\cf1\ulnone\b0\par
The town of Nicholls was never over 300 in population.  In 2016 it was down to around 250 with a disproportionate number of retired Marines with grown children no longer at home, and their wives. The courthouse, occupying a city block, is one story, wooden, unpretentious. The buildings and houses present a scattered, drab look, like they are trying to take up but are failing to fill Nicholl's sixteen blocks.  There iis a sense of looking to the past more than the future, that the glory days have parted.  They were in the 1920s, when there was a hotel and people were interested in digging for treasure west of the city. \par
\par
Aaron accidentally missed the turn to the church and took Deen two blocks west, south, and then finally to the church after passing the courthouse. At this point he has seen almost the whole town. They enter on the west side, where the parking is; the main entrance is on the east side, facing the highway. Four blocks west is the new church, at the time of the story padlocked by Nicholls Bank. \par
\par
\f1\lang9  \cf0\ul\f0\lang1033 Drive to Nicholls\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 Aaron glanced over at the scrunched up, insignificant form of Deem Futz wadded up in the seat beside him. He considered again turning the car around and heading back north, it being madness to even take Deem to the interview. \cf2  \cf0 Aaron had to consider his own relationship with the Nicholls elders, and they would blame him for this.   The temptation was sharper with every exit, beginning with the Cass County line at 155th Street. It was stronger at 163rd Street and it was only with an effort that he did not take the Highway 58 exit.  He'd conquered it, though, by the time he got to the next exit: what would he tell the bishop, his boss, to whom he had promised whole-hearted obedience and loyalty.  His own reputation was on the line here.  He would have to work with the church in Nicholls long after this interview was over, if the church still existed, if the candidate somehow managed to pull that sinking church out of its dive.  And this candidate... But orders were orders, and he willingly obeyed the bishop in everything.  This probably was the biggest test he had ever had in that regard.  Nicholls, of all places, getting this candidate, of all candidates. It was a recipe for disaster. He had discussed that with the bishop.  And now here he was, ferrying said candidate to the interview with the Session, the elders of the Nicholls Church.  It would not be an interview as much as a firing squad, a chopping block, a meat grinder.  He himself would say nothing at the interview itself - that would be between the Session and the candidate.  His was to observe, and to report back to the bishop.  He already had that report partly written in his mind, and the bishop would agree that Deem Futz was the wrong candidate.\par
\par
Deem Futz was a case.  He usually said very little and Aaron liked people who talked. He could figure them out, but someone like this who was mostly silent required a lot of guesswork.  Deem had given him no clues as to what motivated him, even after knowing him for three weeks. Aaron survived by understanding people, by negotiating on that basis, by getting people to agree to things that at the start of the conversation they would have opposed.  The deceased bishop had approved of Aaron's abilities in that regard and Aaron had been the go-to guy when there was trouble needing shooting. He was a troubleshooter par excellance.  Now here was the Nicholls Church, trouble for sure, and here was this unknown.  What he saw and knew he really disliked and he did not think it would go anywhere good.  But this new bishop had known Deem back in Michigan.  What did that say about him?  Aaron's mind whirred, offsetting that against the powers that be in the churches of the presbytery, the other presbyteries, and the denomination as a whole.  How could he safeguard and improve his own position in this?  It looked bad now, but if he could rescue it somehow he could earn some clout with this new bishop.\par
\par
 Also Deem was very underweight from starving alone in his apartment in Michigan - Aaron had fattened him up before the interview, which was now three weeks later than planned - and from Aaron's persepctive he seemed to almost have given up hope - the second fatal in Nicholls, the worst of all traits.    Aaron was again concerned about how forlorn, defeated and gut-punched Deem looked - likely they would never accept him. He reminded himself as to why he was taking Deem to the interview.  \par
\par
Aaron tried for conversation but this Deem Futz answered noncomittally and without interest.  Attempts at conversation simply died.  Successful pastors talked your ear off given the chance.  Another down mark, another indicator for disaster.  \cf2\par
\cf0\par
\par
Short. Skinny. Immemorable. Aaron forgot what the guy looked like every time he looked away, and he had to look at him twice every time to be sure he was really there. There was something about him that made the eye want to pass over him, as if anything else would be more interesting. This would be it, though.  Today Deem Futz would pass out of Aaron's life after getting the right boot of fellowship at this interview. He would go somewhere - Aaron really didn't care where, past the normal human concern for another human - and life would go back to normal.  The Nicholls church would probably wait for months for another candidate and then reject the next one, if they managed to last that long.  Aaron had requested someone else be assigned liaison to Nicholls, and the bishop had pointed out that Aaron knew them, and if Aaron was right, the church would close soon and he, Aaron, would have that problem solved.  Until then he needed to carry this cross. Thy will be done, Lord.  He, Aaron Muis, would carry out this mission as if it was his own, as if directly commanded from the Throne. That said Throne had heard enough, though, and wanted to hear no more from him on the point of him being reassigned.  "My grace is sufficient for thee." Aaron had spent time before that Throne meditating on 2 Corinthians 12:1-10 until he had surrendered all this to that Throne.  Nonetheless it kept returning, bubbling up at the actual sight of Deem Futz.  \par
\par
All Aaron's faith, all his inner resolution and promises to God and the bishop evaporated whenever he saw this unknown, insignificant person.  There was something about him that made Aaron simply want to slap him away. Insignificant.  Aaron had to remind himself that there were no little people, that no one was insignificant in the sight of God.  Deem seemed to prove that false very convincingly, and that insignificance was the one thing that stood out about him, like a superpower.  Deem had interviewed at a number of churches and settlements, but had been passed over, rejected, sometimes with an angry letter to Seminary Placement concerning the candidate, often viewed only as worthy of complete rejection by the elders, usually questioning why he had ever been admitted to seminary due to a profound lack of leadership skills.  He had no glitz or glam, no style, nothing memorable.   He spoke seldom and then softly and briefly. Some had written and wanted to know when he had come, and he had come.  They had forgotten he had. One settlement had asked him to come out of curiosity - could any candidate be this bad?  It was not a job offer, just a curious lark, a waste of their time, a folly.\par
\par
This bishop, this new bishop, as Aaron pointed out to himself, his new bishop, his new bishop to whom he reported and owed total loyalty to, now that Bishop Green was giving whatever answer to God he had - Aaron sometimes wondered how that went - this bishop had known Deem at the seminary, and Aaron had not figured out why the bishop, this  new bishop, etc., urged Nicholls to interview him. Or what there was to know.   Maybe the bottom candidate for the bottom church? Nicholls Epper had a reputation.  Long ago it had had the great Jake Profim as pastor before the CDP had ruled on him, and then the great Pastor Smit, but then there was Pastor Hartmann and his wreckage.  Deem Futz as pastor would be the cherry on top.  More accurately, the straw to break the camel's back. With Deem as pastor, it would last a month. With no pastor, maybe six unless the hierarchy stepped in and forced a shut down. Maybe Deem was the euthanasia they were prescribing.  Aaron hated uncertainty, hated speculating.  He could read Bishop Green, but not yet the new guy.  He would have to bluff if it came to it.  And bluffing was uncomfortably close to outright lying sometimes, a step Aaron had not taken.  But LaCygne last month.  Had he crossed the line?\par
\par
That church was down to less than two dozen staunch and bitter ex-Marines and their wives.  Grim, angry, reactionary, bitter after the fight over getting Hartmann out of there, that should have taken a lot less effort, far fewer words, far less fire and brimstone from that Session, and there was still something simmering between the Bishop and the Presbytery and Nicholls. Futz as the bishop's insult?  Aaron shook his head.  That would be nasty beneath his episcopacy.  But was it?  The bishop had not been there very long, after all.  Aaron did not know him that well.  The bishop was often opaque to Aaron, formal, remote, and did not feel he needed to explain himself, as indeed he did not, to Aaron, but at the same time he demanded utter honesty from Aaron, and Aaron felt like he was an open book to the bishop, who sometimes seemed to know him better than he himself did.   Nicholls needed a good, savvy pastor who could rescue a sinking church. But they were staunchly and determinedly Marines down there, or rather their own Marine culture that somehow was super-Marine.  They fed off each other.  Hartmann, the ex-Navy retired chaplain, had made it worse.  Now they could only continue, by mutual consent, if they had a pastor who had never been in the military.  But any good pastor, the sort of pastor they needed, would take one look at the place and run.  That left only the bottom dregs of the seminary as candidates, not the sort of people who could pull a rescue, but also not the sort of people they could accept or follow.  And Deem Futz had, by now, no other choices.  So here was the perfect storm of the worst church in the denomination matched up with the worst candidate.  Aaron figured the church would be gone by winter unless God did something miraculous. He didn't deny that might happen. \par
\par
The elders would be sitting, the same three on one side and the same three on the other, per the division.  Three had been elders when Smit had been pastor, three had become elders when recruited by Hartmann.  There had been conflicting letters sent by the elders, as at times the second group had corresponded in the name of all the elders wiithout informing the other three, sometimes reversing what all six had agreed to do. It had been ugly.  Elders Sand, Bread, Opp were the first three; Spinkster, Chips and Pfingster were the second.  Spinkster might not be there - Aaron's take on it was he was giving up here.  Sands.  Clerk of Session.  Bread, typically level-headed. Opp, a retired JAG officer and now serving as a judge.  Spinkster a former enlisted Marine, Chips as well, Pfingster now celebrated as the oldest living Marine in Nicholls.  The last three had fully supported Hartmann and wanted him back, or someone like him back, despite everything.  The first three had persuaded them to consider a non-Marine. Aaron suspected there had been several very angry and loud elders' meetings, if he knew them, and he did, at which they had hashed it out.  And knowing them, just because they said they agreed did not mean it would work out that way.  They might take out all their anger and frustration on this candidate.  At that point Aaron would pull him out and that would be the end of it.  Aaron really did not see acceptance. For that matter, he did not see a good outcome here. \par
\par
He remembered hearing of how, at graduation, Deem had been 'passed over'.  Traditionally the dean prayed a specially written prayer over each student.  Sometimes they were lengthy. The gentleman before Deem had gotten a prayer many on the faculty had contributed to, long and full of promise.  He got to Deem, did not even look at him and simply passed him to the next graduate. There was some sort of mix-up: his name was not called and there was no diploma.  They told him there was confusion that had never happened before and he could pick it up at the office next day.  However, the office was closed for the traditional two weeks after graduation. His file indicated he had not graduated, but the secretary commented that everything was there.  She gave the file to  her supervisor, who told Deem she would review it and apologized for the delay. She would look into it and get back to him.  Two weeks later she did - his diploma had been ordered but had come back incorrect and had to be redone. A month after that, there was a correct diploma, but issuance was on hold until his bill had been paid.  But it was paid, so they would have to talk to the bursar and get back to him.   They finally gave him the diploma and a statement that all bills were paid.  When he got home that day, there was a letter stating that his application to the seminary had been declined.  He took it into the Admissions office and they apologized for the error. None of Deem's family had come for graduation.\par
\par
Two weeks ago Aaron had asked Deem if that was true.  It was. And Aaron learned elsewhere, not directly from Deem, of the old man with the crazy look, a fellow with thick glasses and no hair, who came up to Deem afterwards and whispered "Congratulations," and made off.  He had left a piece of paper in Deem's hand that said \f2\rtlch\lang1037\'eb  \'e5\'cc\'f0\'c0\'fa\'c7\'fa\'cc\'c4\'e9\'ea\'c8 \'ec\'c8\'f2\'c8\'ed \'e4\'c7\'e6\'cc\'c6\'e4, \'ec\'c0\'e7\'e5\'c9\'ee\'c7\'fa \'f0\'c0\'e7\'c9\'f9\'d1\'c6\'fa \'e1\'cc\'c0\'f6\'e5\'cc\'f8\'c8\'e4, \'e5\'c0\'f0\'c4\'ec\'c0\'e7\'c2\'ee\'e5\'cc \'e0\'c5\'ec\'c6\'e9\'ea\'c8, \'e5\'c0\'ec\'c9\'e0-\'e9\'e5\'cc\'eb\'c0\'ec\'e5\'cc \'ec\'c8\'ea\'c0:  \'eb\'cc\'c4\'e9-\'e0\'c4\'fa\'cc\'c0\'ea\'c8 \'e0\'c2\'f0\'c4\'e9 \'ec\'c0\'e4\'e5\'c9\'f9\'d1\'c4\'e9\'f2\'c2\'ea\'c8 \'e5\'cc\'ec\'c0\'e4\'c7\'f6\'cc\'c4\'e9\'ec\'c6\'ea\'c8, \'f0\'c0\'e0\'cb\'ed-\'e9\'c0\'e4\'e5\'c8\'e4\f0\ltrch\lang1033 .  It was actually written in the old letters, in a form of Phoenician script, not the modern Assyrian or Hebrew cursive.  He had had to go to the library and translate it. It could be translated as, "And I will make thee unto this people a fortified brazen wall; and they shall fight against thee, but they shall not prevail against thee; for I am with thee to save thee and to deliver thee, saith the LORD." The next day, with a shock, Deem read the verse of the day in the Epper Epistle, Jeremiah 15:20.  That's amazing, Aaron had said. A friend of his had tried to track down the piece of paper without letting Deem know, but there had been no success.  Deem had gotten a piece of paper from a stranger, and had gone to the library. Was the rest a fabrication?  Aaron did not know.  The miles dragged by.\par
\par
Then his phone rang. Aaron got a telephone call from Deem's mother, who asked to speak to her son. She had been trying to call him, since he told her he was going to be in the KC area and his telephone had been disconnected months ago. Aaron heard it because Deem did not turn it from speaker phone. \par
\par
She told Deem he had been nothing but trouble lately. Why couldn't he settle down and act normal? A good son would be there when his parents grew old. \par
\par
"Woe to me, mother, that you have bourne me, a man of strife and contention," he told her.  She said it is because he has taken this seminary path.  They wanted him back home to watch cattle.  That is something he wa good at.  No good getting involved in the ways of pastors - next thing you know you will be on trial or something, and it is worse, far worse, than cattle ranching.  Give up on this whole thing, You are like the prodigal son. Your father will welcome you home with open arms."\par
\par
"You are saying I am prodigal here?"\par
\par
"Well, yes.  They told me you are meeting with a church. Nicholls. Son, that church has a terrible reputation. The town, I mean, and the church there, too.  Crazy ex-Marines. Everyone is armed.  Don't go there. Please. Your mother will worry about you. You may want to throw your life away in some crazy idea that you are called, but I don't see you as a pastor.  You barely made it through your studies and some of the things that happened embarrassed us.  Please, son.  We will pay for you to come back home.  We are praying for you, that you will come to your senses and come home."\par
\par
"I have to see this through, Mother."\par
\par
"I wish you would listen to your Mother."  She sighed. "I doubt they will take you, anyway. Promise you will come back home if they don't take you? And I know they won't. I just don't see it."\par
\par
Deem sighed. "Mother, I will certainly consider it. I really don't know if this will work out. "\par
\par
"And if, for some reason, God forbid, they want you, I think you should decline it. Will you promise you will decline it?"\par
\par
"No, Mother, I will not promise that.  I must do what God wants."\par
\par
"And God wants you to obey your parents. I see no reason to continue this discussion," she said, breaking into tears,  "we will pray for you. We had such hopes for you, and now - oh my son, don't do this to your father and me."  Aaron had to listen to Deem's mother cry over the phone as Deem kept trying to talk to her.  Finally she hung up. \par
\par
There was an awkward silence.  Aaron considered that Deem was more than some kind of stock tragic figure - he was a real human being, despite the temptation Aaron had to consider him as less than that.  He had human dignity, and knew sorrow.  Probably more than Aaron realized.  \par
\par
It was a shame about the Nicholls church.  It had had the famous Jake Profim as pastor, years ago, before he had been declared a heretic and exiled, taking half the church with him.  It had recovered and prospered amazingly under the great Pastor Smit, even building the largest Epper sanctuary in the world, so good was he.  Then they had insisted on a Navy chaplain like Smit, and they chose Hartmann.  Now they had lost the building, most of the congregation, and they were down to only a very few Marines holding their position. \par
\par
\lang9 Another thing Deem should know is Nicholls was also running low on water. And \lang1033 Nicholls peaked in the 1920s during the Great Treasure Hunt, when people tore up the Mueller property and left in frustration, yet others kept coming.  At one point Nicholls boasted a hotel. It's been converted to something else, or torn down. Aaron didn't even know where it had been. \par
\par
They passed into Nicholls County.\par
\par
"Is that it?" Deem asked, pointing to an exit.\par
\par
"No.  That says Kikker Industries.  But I don't see anything."  Flat, hot featureless prairie ran in all directions. Or was it prairie?  Aaron wasn't sure.  He had thought prairie included those long rolling hills, like up in Cass County.  Here it seemed that there was a flat nothingness.  He'd been told it was a trick of the eye, that there were actually the same sorts of hills here, but it just seemed completely featureless.  A few trees off in the distance followed a creekbed, now dry, the trees brown in leaf, the fields brown as well. \par
\par
"Never heard of it."\par
\par
"No. Me neither."\par
\par
"Isn't Nicholls where Jake Profim was pastor."\par
\par
"Before he was exiled."  Really, Deem should have done the background research necessary for asking intelligent questions, anticipating questions, and in general being able to demonstrate being competent, aware, on-top and in control of the situation. Mastery of himself was essential to leadership.  What had this guy ever learned? Aaron was not allowed to simply shove him out of the car.  \par
\par
"Didn't he have some land out here somewhere, where exiled Eppers used to go?"\par
\par
"He did - the whole west half of this county.  From what I've heard, though, there's nothing out there now but a few dilapildated trailers and a few old people pining for the good old days.  Anyway that is the story you'll hear in town.  And politically, as you should know, that is probably not a good thing to bring up - that this is the hometown of the premier Epper star, who got exiled for heresy. Jake Profim is not a name you should mention today.  Or anytime soon.  Sort of like going to Rome and talking up Martin Luther."  Aaron considered Deem a political naif, while his own skills had gotten him where he was. \par
\par
Deem said nothing.\par
\par
"What's that?" Deem was looking across the land towards Old 71, now parallelling the new highiway. A wrought-iron fence leapt between concrete posts along the highway before turning away and running into the distance.  The fence corralled large trees, manly oak, green even in the heat.  They in turn seemed to keep a a large, one would even say grandiose, house that more nearly resembled something you would expect to see in Europe in place.  The house struggled to look out but the trees would not have it.\par
\par
"That is where one of the elders lives, Dennis Opp.  The legend is that the house was built by someone in the great treasure hunt of the 1930s - the man came to town, built the house, shorted the constructon crews, fleeced the town and was in prison in Jefferson City for the rest of his life.  The place sat empty for years and was sold for a song to Elder Opp.  He's a judge here as well as being an elder, but I have never been inside.  Never had a need."\par
\par
A minute or so later they took the steep Nicholls ramp up to where Main Street crossed the highway.\par
\par
"You are now leaving reality, and entering a pseudo-Marine fantasy land," Aaron said on the exit ramp. He pasued. "I should not have said that. Please forget I said that. These people -"  He shook his head. He would not allow himself to hate them.  Professionally he could not.  He was called to love them, despite their impossibility, their determined arrogance and resilience to any outside idea, anything they considered non-Marine.  He'd met Marine vets in other places who shrugged their shoulders and said nothing when he had mentioned Nicholls.  "Founded by Marines," they would say.  But they would not criticize brother Marines to non-Marines.\par
\par
\strike "Okay."  Deem watched a motorbuggy, clearly the first he had ever seen, cross the road ahead of him. It was a wooden box on four giant wooden wheels, with a mast and boom for a sail, but the sail was furled. One man sat on the bench in front, and another hung on to the boom in the rear as it hummed along. An oddity found only in Nicholls County.\strike0\par
\par
"Nicholls: Home of the Bulldogs - All Marines are Welcome Here" the sign said, yellow block letters on a red background. It was in a sort of flower bed that was mulch and some dried out plants that maybe had been flowers in their glory days.  Sort of like Nicholls, Aaron thought to himself, under Pastor Smit, or further back, Jake Profim.  Curious that two such influential men had pastored the same church.  And it was amazing that this Deem Futz was candidating here. Times change. \par
\par
Aaron turned right.  "On your left is Station Park - you can see the foundation of the old railroad station, and you can see the fenced-off caboose that the railroad donated to the town. Now in 2016 the trains just blow through Nicholls without even slowing down, and even the Nicholls siding was removed long ago - I think not long after World War 2. There was a POW camp west of here during the war."\cf1  \cf0\par
\par
"Fenced off?"\par
\par
"It's unsafe to climb on, I guess.   That happened long before I ever heard of Nicholls."\par
\par
"How long ago was that?"\par
\par
"Five years. Pastor Smit was still pastor, and they were in their big new church."  A slide, swings and a picnic shelter complete the attractions at Station Park.   It was empty in the heat, and the brown grass was sparse. Behind the park was the \cf1 old \cf0 industrial section, industrial buildings that the railroad had supported before they tore  out the siding, mainly abandoned or converted and then abandoned, or struggling and about to be abandoned.  Aaron relayed this to Deem. \cf1  \cf0\par
\par
"Now the railroad doesn't even stop here."\par
\par
As if on cue the gates went down with flashing lights and clatter.  A freight train with two engines zipped through. They waited.  Box cars. Coal cars. Reefers.  A string of tankers like sausages. \par
\par
"People tell me that area is where Kikker Industries started. Apparently local boy makes big, but you saw nothing when you came down the highway.  They look back in time here - probably Kikker Industries failed long ago.  This town is dying, I think.  Probably the biggest source of revenue is Marine Corps retirement checks, but they will complain all day about federal largess and wasteful spending."\par
\par
"They see no contradiction?"\par
\par
"No, most of them paid in blood.  I see no contradiction, and neither should you. Nicholls was named after the founder of the Marine Corps - I forget his full name, but they all know it - and has always sent a large number of its youth off to the Corps. Many have not come back."\par
\par
"I see."\par
\par
"I don't know how many of them, but all the men of the high school classes of 1940 to 1944 died taking islands in the Pacific.  All of them.  That is still a wound in this town seventy years later. There are still gold stars in the windows of the houses where the boys lived, those in town anyway, and it's best you not bring it up."\par
\par
"So there is a big veterans' presence here?"\par
\par
"Immense. And Nicholls Epper is the only church.  The town is actually the same size as many of our settlements, but it is not a settlement.  It is a town with an Epper church, and many people will make that distinction, as they are not Eppers."\par
\par
 "I really don't know how they manage.  I mean, there is no industry here.  And those Marine retirement checks can't be everything.  Even if they squeeze every penny hard enough to make Lincoln cry."\par
\par
 They passed a block of brick stores, and then there was the hospital on the left - only three stories occupying part of a city block - and a row of commercial buiildings on the right.  Pickup trucks were parked at an angle along both sides in front of the businesses.  Four crew-cut men, their jeans matching and their shirtsleeves rolled identically, were marching in step unconciously, arms swinging the same, as they walked somewhere. Each had a holster on his right hip. They nodded in unison as they passed someone.\par
\par
"All trucks.  And everyone seems fit," Deem observed.\par
\par
"Yep."  Aaron considered his own slight paunch.  He was always self-conscious down here.  He was not a Marine, he did not measure up, and they always silently let him know that. In Pastor Smit's day it had been a warm and welcoming fellowship of people who truly loved each other and loved God more - things had gone downhill and now they had the bitter end. He impercitibly shook his head.\par
\par
"You have doubts about me," Deem said,"I know. I don't blame you."\par
\par
Aaron was supposed to build the candidate up.  He felt worse. Deem knew, which surprised him.  The man had always seemed almost unaware of where he was or how people felt, despite how all the presbytery staff had latched on to him and were sad to see him go.  Glad to see him get an interview, but he would be missed.  Aaron had not understood that.  Or this. This sucked the last vestige of any kind of pleasure at all from this. There was a lot here that was not adding up, that was incalculable, that he could not control. The whole thing was approaching indecency.  These people in Nicholls always made him understand they considered him inferior.  What would they do to Deem?  The elders when Pastor Smit was here had been a great session.  But Pastor Hartmann had forced several resignations and brought a few on board that were, shall we say, less than ideal. And Pastor Hartmann had had no business interfering in the selection of the session.  It had been unethical, had been commented on, and the comments had been ignored. But Pastor Hartmann was gone. Thank. God. \par
\par
"Ahh - I should have turned back there to get to the church. I guess I'm still thinking about going to the new church.  Driving and talking at the same time. Nicholls only has sixteen blocks in a grid, so it isn't a great distance.   This town has no street signs and no stop signs. No speed limits.  They try to get their regulations to a miniumum, and the ones they enforce are quirky."\par
\par
"Like what?"\par
\par
"The theory is that armed people will be cordial to each other, so there is no need for stop signs.  Everyone knows where everything is, so there is no need for street signs.  But there is a need to always carry a loaded sidearm at all times.  Cops will stop you and make sure you have a round in the chamber if you are a Nicholls resident. As soon as we leave Main Street you can expect that we get pulled over.  But I am going to take you around to the courthouse, and you will see what I mean."\par
\par
"Here's Butler's: the coffee comes in two flavors: Battery Acid and Civillian.  Do not order the Battery Acid - although it's half the cost, it is way too strong,  burnt and bitter. They take a pride in it.   The food is good, though, and there is plenty of it.' \par
\par
 From behind the big window, from a booth on one side, a wild-looking man glared at Deem until they could see each other no more.  "That's Crazy Harry," Aaron said,"I was warned to stay away from him. Seeing him puts a chill on my heart." Deem nodded. "Nicholls is mainly retired Marines of a peculiar strain.  You could say their own culture.  Pastor Smit used to have a large ministry here to help people struggling with PTSD that drew people all the way here from Joplin to St. Joseph."\par
\par
"PTSD?"\par
\par
"Post traumatic stress disorder.  In this town, if you stay, you will hear that a lot. Most of the men are combat vets."\par
\par
"What happened?"\par
\par
"Pastor Hartmann.  He told them they were crybabies, to suck it up and get over it. He shut it down."\par
\par
"I see.  He was the last pastor here, right?"\par
\par
"Yes.  Doctor Underwood, a psychiatrist with twenty years experience treating PTSD in Marines, moved his whole practice here.  Pastor Hartmann drove him out of town."\par
\par
"Pastor Hartmann -"\par
\par
"Let's focus on today.  I like to move on from that. There is, however, a debris field here, like the bright and shiny new church building, now padlocked, that they had lost.  They were back in their first building.  But then there were not a lot of them left, fewer every Sunday. We need to think about what is next, not what is past."\par
\par
Deem took this in.  How much did he know about the last pastor? How much did he really know? Maybe he had heard everything.  Maybe he knew nothing.  And did it really matter?  Deem would have to put the church back together, if anything short of a direct divine intervention could do that, and listing all that had gone wrong would not be helpful.  And the whole thing was still a bitter memory to Aaron.  It still stung, there were still tensions between the elders and between himself and them, and between them and the presbytery, and between himself and the presbytery, and even between himself and the bishop over this.  He wanted to make it good as liaison, but maybe that meant shutting down the whole sorry church.  In five years Pastor Hartmann had taken a very healthy church and almost destroyed it.  And there had been very little that he himself, Aaron Muis, could have done about it. \par
\par
 Aaron silently drove.  Somewhere underneath, he was still seething. Despite counsel and prayer, he was still angry.  He pronounced forgiveness one more time on one and all and repeated his determination to see that God would bring good out of this horrible mess.  He might never know the how or when, but he simply had to trust God. \par
\par
Two blocks later they turned left.  Before they got to the end of a block the police car behind them lit up.  With no other traffic on the road and nowhere to turn off, Aaron simply stopped on the gravel.  It had been gravel since they had left Main. \par
\par
"Keep your hands in the open,"  Aaron told Deem.  This was Nicholls.  Just about anything could happen.\par
\par
Behind them the police officer seemed to do nothing for several minutes.  Then his door opened and large, shiny black boots met the pavement and slowly approached them, carrying the mountain above.  He was undefinably ex-Marine, still in shape, still buzz-cut under his DI hat, an avalanche of confident swagger and authority surging along the street.  Body armor, enormous holster on one hip, enormous billy-club-slash-flashlight on the other, his uniform crisp, his eyes hidden behind aviator glasses, smooth shaven, ball cap set low the way Marines wear fatigue covers.  If there were two cops like this in town, they could shave each other with their chins.  It was unlikely he was capable of smiling. There were three in-town cops, the last time Aaron knew, one detective, and one cop who roamed the county roads.  The three in-town cops looked like clones of each other.  \par
\par
"Good afternoon, sir" this one said to Aaron.  His head moved as behind the glasses his eyes roamed the interior of the car.\par
\par
"Good afternoon, officer," Aaron said. \par
\par
There was a silence.  Finally, "You're from out of town, right?"\par
\par
"Yes, sir."\par
\par
"Let me see your license, please."  The 'please' was tacked on to what otherwise was an order. \par
\par
With a frown he examine the front, then the back, then the front again, as if convinced it must somehow be a forgery. He even turned it sideways and looked at it that way, from all four edges.  They went through the same examination with regards to the insurance card.\par
\par
Behind the glasses the cop was expressionless, as if not knowing what to do with people from out of town. "May I ask what you are doing in Nicholls?" The tone indicated they could have no plausible, legal, ratonal, unquestionable reason for setting foot inside the city limits or driving their streets.  \par
\par
"I'm taking this candidate for the pastorate to his interview.  I am afraid we may be late."\par
\par
"Is he there already?"\par
\par
"I'm right here," Deem said.  The officer's head snapped back, as if seeing Deem for the first time.\par
\par
"They are expecting you.  I heard they are going for... a non-Marine.  That will be a first.  I expect you'll be leaving immediately after the interview?" He did not wait for an answer. "Welcome to Nicholls, sir. Well, good day."  He handed Aaron his license back, and they turned left on the next street.  The cop turned left behind them, fifty feet back.\par
\par
"This is Courthouse Square. That's the county courthouse."  There was an unimpressive one story limestone building, sitting in the lawn of a city block and dwarfed by acres of dried grass around it.  There were buildings on two sides of the square, and one on the south side.  No trees, of course, for a clear field of fire as someone had seriously told him once.  Those who were expecting a Japanese invasion at any minute were dying out.  There were low granite memorials to Marine actions in conflicts going back to the Revolutionary War that gave it the air of a cemetary.   South of the courthouse was vacant land that stretched to the horizon.  Only three sides of the courthouse square were built - someone had had grandiose dreams about the town that had never come to fruiition.   \par
\par
"You see the stone foundations everywhere? This town is old. Or for all I know concrete foundations are outlawed in Nicholls. Most of the buildings were built before 1900 anyway."\par
\par
"There are a lot of buildings from the 1700s back home."\par
\par
"West Virginia, right?"\par
\par
"Berkeley Springs area."\par
\par
"Sorry, I never heard of it.  But you were raised on a settlement?"\par
\par
"Yes.  Mountain Valley - we lived some miles south of the Springs.  Apples, cattle, chickens, wheat, other crops."\par
\par
This was personal information, more than Aaron wanted to get into right then.  He reminded himself that it was likely the interview starting in five minutes would be the end of things here and of knowing Deem Futz. He did not reply. \par
\par
A scruffy, homeless-looking man was walking along the street.  He glanced at the car, and without warning opened the back door, got in and shut the door.\par
\par
The strong odor of sweaty, unwashed man, mixed with that of urine and several other unpleasant odors that Aaron could not place, washed over them from the back seat. One was beer.  Gin. Bourbon.  A cheap wine. \par
\par
"Are you a pastor?"  His breath was bad, too. \par
\par
"No. Of all the -"\par
\par
"I seen your plates.  How come you got that sticker then?"\par
\par
"I am an official with the presbytery.  This car is church property."  Aaron was tense. The man had to leave.  Why was he here?  Aaron hated surprises. This situation was already out of control. \par
\par
"I need to see a pastor.  Name's Whiggins, if that helps."\par
\par
"Sir, it does not.  Please get out of the car. Now."\par
\par
"Not til you tell me where I can find a pastor. I ain't going anywhere."  It would probably take two weeks to fumigate the car.  And delouse it. \par
\par
"We are on our way to an important meeting. We both want you to leave."\par
\par
"Both? I thought you was alone."  He seemed to see Deem for the first time.\par
\par
"I don't think you should leave," Deem said softly.\par
\par
"What? Deem, this is unprecedented.  One does not pick up people who climb into your car."   \par
\par
"I think Jesus would."  Aaron was silent. Deem was contradicting him. Did he know his whole career was in Aaron's hands right now? His whole future.  It was if he didn't care.  \par
\par
"Whiggins, you are welcome.  Eppers have a long history of hospitality."  Deem glanced at Aaron; the best Aaron could do was to give him a warning glance.  This was, after all, part of the overall interview process: how did the candiidate interact with the community.  And this was a big, fat, solid, screaming F. It was a sure thing he and Deem would be returning shortly northwards, and Deem would be entirely in Aaron' power.  A reptilian sense of satisfaction and anticipation rose in Aaron. \par
\par
"You are Eppers? That Pastor Hartmann told me I was going to hell. Is he still around?"\par
\par
"No, he's not."\par
\par
"That's the smartest thing them Eppers ever did, then, getting rid of him."\par
\par
"I am not at liberty to discuss it with you."\par
\par
Deem turned,"I am here to interview for the position of pastor."\par
\par
"I think you will make one damn fine pastor."\par
\par
"Thank you."\par
\par
Aaron could not think of what to say.  After a minute he continued his tour to Deem, as if the hobo was not there.  "I think the place was founded by Marines after the Civil War.  They expected thousands.  Not that many were interested. I heard - I haven't verified it, but I heard -  Nicholls County records state that Marine vets founded Nicholls in the late 1860s.  I put it that way because some say the town was pre-Civil War but there is no proof.  The weirdest thing about this town are the rumors of buried treasure passed from lip to lip: a persistant rumor was that the Marines settled the town to hunt for the treasure on the Mueller property, as Nicholls County has nothing, really, to offer anyone except poor pasturage. It's supposed to be treasure from everyone from the Incas to Blackbeard to the civil war to war plunder from World War 2.  I have no idea why there are so many rumors about it. If you are here any length of time, you will hear plenty of those stories.  I, personally, do not believe any of them.  Probably made up by people to try to attract people to this place.  Well, that's the VFW Hall, and that's the shooting range."  \par
\par
"My mother is a whore. I don't know who my father is," Whiggins offered. "Thanks for pickiing me up.  I got nowhere to go except I gotta talk to a pastor.  There's no pastor in Nicholls right now."  \par
\par
"Deem, I will have to report your patronage of this individual to the bishop.  This demonstates a singular lack of good judgment."  He was close, very close, to simply driving out of Nicholls, ridding himself of the bum, and calling the session from Kansas City, explaining that the bishop had decided that Deem should withdraw.  No interview, and Deem would be gone.  He could have handled this that way with Bishop Green, but something told him it was risky now.  Too risky.  Safer to simply let Deem bomb the interview.  That way he, himself, was not at risk and the fault would be clear. Perhaps the new bishop would even admint Aaron had been right about thiis candidate, and his position strengthened. \par
\par
"That cop is following us."  Deem looked past Whiggins out the back window.  Whiggins offered his hand and they shook hands. "I'm driving," Aaron said.  This was simply not happening. It could not be happening.  Perhaps they had some bleach at the church that Deem could disinfect himself with. There would be a car wash he could vacuum the back seat out with on the return trip north.  He would make Deem, then crushed with defeat, do the work.  \par
\par
"I am obliged," Whiggins said,"I'd like it if you would let me be your personal assistant."\par
\par
"I would like that, too," Deem said, and smiled. Aaron made a note: Deem could smile. He had never smiled at Aaron.  Aaron pursed his lips.\par
\par
"Wholly inappropriate.  A personal assistant goes through selection, examination, training, and final evaluation and then is assigned to someone matching his skills. This is presumptuous and inappropriate, Mr. Whiggins - the candidate here is not the pastor and may not be here very much longer, not even past today. You both are making a huge, huge mistake. Take my word for it.  Deem, you had better tell him just to go. And regarding the cop - not a surprise.  Probably has nothing better to do. Well, there's the grocery on the left and a vacant block on your right.  Ahead is the church on your left and the old cemetery on your right. South of it is the new cemetery."\par
\par
"I haven't eaten in ever so long."  Whiggins held his hands to his stomach.  Aaron stopped the car. He pulled a five dollar bill out of his wallet and thrust it at Whiggins. "Here. There. The grocery. Food is there. Please, get yourself something to eat. And go somewhere and eat it. Please. No whiskey. No beer.  Never mind. I don't care what you do with it. Just go."  \par
\par
"Thank you kindly, sir," Whiggins said, and stepped out of the car.  A few of his flies did not leave with him, and now moved to the front seat.  Aaron waved his hand at the flies.  Whiggins smiled and waved back.  That was not the message he had intended to communicate. But he noted that Whiggins was armed, or at least had a holster like everyone in Nicholls.  What a horrible incident.  At least it was over. Nothing like that had ever happened to him before.  He had never even heard of that.  He would lock his car doors from now on. Always. Epper settlements were quiet, decent, respectable people full of well-mannered people.  Most towns were, also, at least the sections Aaron frequented. \par
\par
The street in front of the church was paved.  "This is Old 71.  And the only gas station in town is the Gas 'N' Grub - it's on the north side, where you used to come into town.  It was built I think in 1922 and was never redecorated.  They sell more whiskey than gas or grub, and you probably don't want their grub.  Probably the grub was bought in 1922. Mainly canned goods.  And cash only - no credit cards, no debit cards.  They didn't want a gas station near the exit because they didn't want people coming to Nicholls. It,  like everything else in Nicholls, is locally owned and only takes cash. The owner is rude, or at least rude to people from out of town.  Once he showed me his shotgun he keeps behind the counter.  I got the feeling he hated the idea of selling gasoline to a non-Marine. I've gassed up there only twice.  He told me he hoped there would not be a third time unless I planned on moving here, and I didn't look like a Marine to him, so it would be best if I forget about coming there.  And he has a sign that says "I shoot drive-offs and I shoot to kill".  I think he means it.\par
\par
"Wow."\par
\par
"Bear in mind these elders you are meeting are all Nicholls ex-Marines.  They will tell you they are Marines and the phrase ex-Marine is ignorant.  Kitten Pfingster is the oldest living Marine in Nicholls, a world war two and Korea vet, and so Pastor Hartmann recruited him to be an elder. It would not surprise me if he asked you if you saw any Japanese on the drive down here. "\par
\par
"I see."\par
\par
"Tell him no. Nicholls is always a treat for me to visit."\par
\par
"I can tell."\par
 \par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 "This is the original 1868 church, as you can see from the cornerstone." He pointed, and there it was in prominent relief. "They meet back here now," Aaron explained. "Pastor Smit built a bigger church and tried to sell this one, but there were no takers. Pastor Smit was good. Then this church lost their building due to financial reasons - the bank took it - and they came back to their own old bulding." Deem said nothing. He looked ill.  Aaron hoped it was only nerves. \par

\pard\ltrpar\lang1033 The church was an old white clapboard church, so small it could have only a single aisle, the sort that are scattered across the American rural landscape: it could have been anywhere. It was brightly painted with new white paint, and had a peaked roof and sharp steeple that rose to where a cross shone in the sun, brightly polished as if hung between heaven and earth.  This side had stained glass windows on the top and a door on the bottom. "It's a trick of the eye, Deem. It looks dead flat around here but it's not.  The entrance around on the other side just has a couple of steps, but here you can walk out of the basement." \lang9  It breathed righteousness more than grace in a severe and austere way.  Nothing out of order was tolerated here. Nothing.\lang1033\par
 \par
"It looks dead flat."\par
\par
"There are a lot of things around here that will fool your eye."  Aaron wondered if he himself meant a lot more by that remark than he realized.  He would have to take some time later and examine why he had said it. \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\par

\pard\ltrpar Aaron gritted his teeth at the sound the wheels made as he started up again and turned onto the parking lot and carefully parked. He was tense, he noted.  He really wanted to get this over with and get out of Nicholls. All the gravel everywhere was something else he didn't like about Nicholls.  Gravel meant poverty, dust, ruts, potholes, but here it meant they were just too cheap to pave anything, to spend a penny beyond what was absolutely necessary. As they got out he noticed the gravel had been impeccably maintained, rolled solid without any holes or ruts.  \i  \i0 Aaron looked around at the five fullsized pickup trucks in the parking lot.  Each had a gun rack across the back of the cab. Variations on "MARINE" and the Eagle, Globe and Anchor were on every  truck. Five elders, five trucks.  Despite the water shortage, they were all newly washed.  He didn't want to know.\par
\lang1033\par
"You left the key in the ignition."\par
\par
"I know.  You do that in Nicholls."\par
\par
"Why?"\par
\par
Aaron shrugged. "God only knows.  City law. Some Marine thing. This is Nicholls.  I guess in case they need to move your car to let a tank through or use it as a barricade in a skirmish."\par
\par
"Don't cars get stolen?" Deem had a strange look, as if not sure if that was sarcasm. Aaron wasn't sure, either.  Sometimes he wasn't sure - he had to maintain a smooth, professional interior, but internally there were several of him, one of which was someone who hated Nicholls.  Another urged him to love these people.  He disliked being such a politician, as he called it, but it was also necessary.  Someone had to do the dirty work for the Lord, deal with the ugly parts, bad situations, fights, skirmishes and scandals that sometimes erupted.  And he alternately smoothed over situations, made problems disappear, calmed ruffled feathers, and resolved differences.  Usually he could maintain a cool, detached professional exterior.  Nicholls, however, got to him.  For one thing they didn't give a rip about a cool, detached professional exterior. He was something that he had no idea what they called it, but it was outside the camaraderie of the foxhole and the brotherhood of the Corps.  In a town where every male over the age of 22 was a member of the VFW he felt it sharply. \par
\par
"Not in Nicholls.  Not with everyone armed. I expect no car has ever been stolen. Trucks, either.  Few cars are here, as you perhaps noticed. And I learned a long time ago an automatic transmission is against the law.  They are all manual.  They passed a law for that, but not for street signs.  Welcome to Nicholls."\par
\par
Deem nodded.\par
 \par
\cf1\strike\par
So there are two "ideal societies" here, one founded on Marine principles, the other on Epper.  Do they conflict?  Not really. \par
\par
Aaron told Deem one version of the legend of the treasure, and how there is also supposed to be a diamond, some say in Snake Woods.  He told of Simon Brot's death. \par
\par
\par
\lang9 Deem reflected to Aaron on that sequence in the beginning of Romans 5, though he was weak and had been emotionally down, he did not run on physical strength or emotional energy. He still, inwardly, rejoiced.\lang1033\par
\cf0\strike0\par
\lang9  \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Aaron checked his watch. He was only five minutes late. Between the wrong turn, that Whiggins character, and the cop, he had lost ten minutes.  They went down the steps to the basement door and the building seemed to lean over Deem, imposing itself on him, crushing him. Who are you, little man? Go away.  The main door was  on the other side.  He could see the church sign but it was facing away from him. The oven-heat was hitting them in the sun and Deem was covered in sweat by the time he got to the door.  It was newly painted and completely free of cobwebs.  The whole town, Aaron reflected, was overly clean. No chipped paint anywhere. No trash on the ground. Obsessively, compulsively, neurotically clean.  Aaron felt like a slob anytime he came to Nicholls.  It was just so perfect. He was not sweating but Deem sure was, shaking a little, too. "The spirit is willing but the flesh is weak," Deem muttered with a twisted smile, a  curled lip.  He looked upset.\f1\par
\f0 Aaron knocked on the immaculate door, wondering if they would wipe the grease from his knuckles off later, maybe using a UV light or something.  He saw no grease, but they would.  These people unnerved him every time he came to this town. . After a silent minute, in which Aaron fought the urge to simply turn around and leave as fast as possible,  Deem pushed it open with the flat of his hand, seeming to stagger.   \f1\par
\f0\lang1033 Deem lost his stomach contents right in the open door, splattering vomit on the newly scrubbed threshhold and the lower part of the door and the concrete walls. He turned to Aaron, vomit dripping off his chin. "The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak." Aaron was tempted to tell him he'd heard that already.  He staggered forward into \lang9 the cool darkness, messily stepping through the puddle.  The darkness was refreshing \lang1033 and the dry heaves subsided in a minute. "What's that smell?" someone asked from the dark interror.  "You've been puking?" Deem nodded.  Aaron decided that pretty much ended this interview. Aaron shut the door. He\lang9  stood back and motioned for Deem to go forward. He would observe.\f1\par
 \f0\lang1033\par

\pard\ltrpar\ul The Interview\ulnone   \par
\par
The flurry of voices from the darkness continued. Hey - you better clean that up.  That ends this right now. Disgusting.  Can't hold his lunch.  What is the matter with him. Do we need to interview further. Wasted enough time here today.  \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 "You Futz?" a gruff voice sitting somewhere in the shadows cut through the protesting voices, silencing them.  They have been waiting, these elders, and he was late. All that was in those two stacatto words.  You should be somewhere ten minutes early, Aaron recalled with a shock, here.   By Nicholl's time he was fifteen minutes late.  They were of the mindset, he recalled, that there was a lotta work a man could do in fifteen. Ruder'n all get out to keep someone waiting, let alone the elders whom he was meeting for a pastoral interview. Not a good start. Not at all.\par
That, also, was in those two words.\par
They didn't bother getting up. The nearest frowned when Deem extended his hand to shake.\par

\pard\ltrpar\lang1033 "Coffee," someone said.  Deem looked down at his hand, as if surprised that a cup of coffee was now in it. Over the acrid smell of vomit Aaron could smell the slightly-burned bitter coffee that for some reason was loved in Nicholls. Here and there were grey ceramic mugs embalzoned with USMC in red, or the globe and anchor, or MARINE and one that said PROPERTY OF MCRD PARRIS ISLAND.  Not a single styrofoam cup in Nicholls.  Deem's cup, Aaron noticed, was a dainty, feminine-looking tea cup. That was uncalled for.  There was Kitten Pfingster, the oldest Marine in Nicholls, staring off with a faraway look.  He was more often on a Pacific Island in the early 1940s these days than he was in the present. His eyes seemed to be scanning the opposite wall for possible Jap soldiers hidden in the cracks. Kitten was always on the alert, always on watch.  You did not touch him without warning, because his assumption, always, was any touch was from an infiltrator in his foxhole.  And he was armed, not just with a revolver but a Ka-Bar knife sharpened to perfection, seven inches of death in a sheath.  No one was going to try to take those away, Aaron thought.  People in Nicholls were very respectful of each other. All these elders were armed, every chamber loaded in every sidearm, full clips, and safety on.  Aaron had heard it was illegal in Nicholls for a weapon in public to not be ready to be fired.  But then he didn't really know - he mainly saw Nicholls through these elders.  When he came down here he came and went as soon as possible and he wondered if they were all like this. \par
\par
These were elders, these five, all trim, all with biceps bigger than his own thigh, all with the short iron-grey beard Eppers called a \i barzel\i0 , a cross lingual pun, because Bart in German meant beard in English, and barzel was Hebrew for English \i iron\i0 .  Epper humor.  Green t-shirts of the same shade on this hot day, their fatigue hats - covers, they called them, laid exactly in the same way for each of them in the exact same place on the table just ahead of their matching sun glasse, to the right of lined pads of paper with matching pen laid across it at the same angle, and papers that looked like the information they had sent on Deem in a neat pile, resume on top, at the same distance as if they had measured it off with a tape measure.  Maybe they had.  Aaron could not see them, but he was sure their boots were shined and tied in the exact same way.  Their hair was all buzzed off, leaving a little silver glint in the light where they still had hair, those who had it.\par
\par
Aaron noted that elders Sand, Bread and Opp were on one side, in the normal order. On the other side sat elders Sand and Chips.  3-2 towards change today.  Spinkster was a no-show, or would be late.  That might, he realized, prolong things here today. \par
\par
\lang9 "Yes, sir," Deem replied nervously.  Aaron noted that when he was nervous his voice went up. Aaron was suddenly struck at a gut level at the gulf between Deem and these Nicholls Marine elders.  They were aliens from different worlds making first contact, from  entirely different worlds, cultures, outlooks on life.  If you went to deepest darkest Borneo you would have to learn the language.  But learning theirs, even though he knew it was English, even though this was an Epper church and you'd think there was sufficient common ground, might be far harder.  The men stared at Deem's new suit, he stared at their short hair and their short beards, their overalls, their calloused, meaty, powerful hands, their eyes.  Some of those eyes said they had seen things they never, ever talked about, memories that they stuffed deep inside. Kitten in particular had been in combat in World War 2 and Korea, but the others were younger and shook their heads if you asked them.  Probably Korea.  Maybe Viet Nam.  Those hard eyes were not friendly in their examination of Deem Futz. It seemed to Aaron that they regarded Deem as they would someone who washed out of Boot Camp the first day, or worse.  Deem stood there patiently, not moving, simply waiting for questions.  Frowns were exchanged among them. They were solid, hardworking, strong, established people, all at least ten years older, if not twenty, than Deem. The normal age for an Epper to become an elder was sixy, but that was not always observed.  These were older, even though each looked like they could break Deem in half with one hand, even the ones who looked like they had passed the eighty year mark. And like they really didn't care whether they could break him.  He was irrelevant, except there he was being a nuisance. Somewhere in the silence, away in the dark depths of the church, was a tiny sound, either a clock ticking or an insect or water dripping - Aaron was not sure which - that normally you would never hear.  Only in awful silence do you hear such things. For Deem's sake, Aaron curled his toes up inside his shoes.  The bishop could not possibly have grasped how irreconcilable the differences were.  He now pitied Deem and wished he had not brought him into this, not for Aaron's own sake, now, but for Deem.  Here Aaron noted his personal sympathy rising beyond his professional detachment.  They were going to murder him. He was ashamed of himself for having wished this would happen.  He did not know that he could stomach watching this - he knew these men well enough.  It was likely they would make Deem break down and cry.  For all he knew, he, Aaron, would also be made to cry. \lang1033\par
\par
They watched silently as Deem did not realize the end of his tie had gone into the coffee until suddenly and awkardly he removed it and wrung out his tie in front of them.  They said nothing. Aaron saw it and a cold feeling went up his spine as he watched.  His stomach was already knotted.   He wondered when his headache would start. Deem of course was worse off.  The sooner this was over the better. Sandy Sands continued long, smooth strokes.  He was sharpening his Ka-Bar.  A little can of oil was on a piece of paper on the table in front of him.  He was using Deem's resume to blot oil.  Aaron never had liked these guys. \par
\par
"The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak," Deem said for the third time.  It did not go over well.  Their spirits were not willing that he was there, and their flesh was not weak. The sense of hostility went up a notch.  There was a tremble in his voice and his coffee-hand was shaking.\par
\par
"You look like you are afraid, son," someone said in a deep grumble, almost kindly.\par
\par
"Terrified," Deem said,"You guys scare me."   That did not help at all. There were coughs and looks at each other. \par
\par
Deem found something to break the silence. "Mr. Muis told me you are ex-Marines.  My dad was in the army, just like you. So I understand soldiers." They curtly explained they were Marines, not ex-Marines, not soldiers, in the Corps, not the army.  "We got a winner here," someone said.  Aaron could not locate the source of that comment.\par
\cf1\lang9\par
\cf0 "Who is clerk of session now?" Aaron asked into the bleak silence.\par
\par
"Deacon Muis, you must know that.  You should also make sure your candidate arrives on time.  But we blame him, not you, for that.  I'm Sandy Sands. Clerk of Session.   Also over there are Kitten Pfingster,Chips, and over here, beside me are Nathan Bread and Dennis Opp, .  Mike Spinkster isn't here. We are down to this size because, well, the church isn't so big anymore.  It doesn't matter who's who because this interview is about over."  The others nodded, barely, at the mention of their names. \par
\lang1033\par
Besides the elders, in the back of the room an elderly woman was sitting quietly on a folding chair. When had she arrived?  Aaron was not sure. \par
\par
"Welcome," Sandy said.  But that was clearly only a formality.  Aaron felt his blood running cold.  His sharpening was more interesting than this candidate. Anyway that's where his eyes were. Aaron decided this was going to not take long.  He might be home by dinner time. \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 "Thank you," Deem replied.\par
"Let's skip any more preliminaries," someone said.  There were murmurs of agreement.\lang1033\par

\pard\ltrpar "That's Mabel, our prayer warrior," Sandy Sands said, jerking a thumb over his shoulder in her direction without turning.  He pronounced 'prayer warrior' with a slight sneer.  She waved slightly, but oddly - not at Deem but as if someone else was there.  But there were only Deem and himself and the five elders - no one in the direction she waved.  Aaron thought anyone called a prayer warrior must be slightly screwy in the head anyway, and the other elders gave a slight smirk - obviously they had had dealiings with this Mabel before.  Just a crank like you find in some churches. There was another chair back there, not far from her, as if they were expecting someone else. Maybe Mike Spinkster.\par
\par
"I want a leader who can inspire me," Chips was saying,"I want someone I can follow into combat."\par
\par
"I think you mean spiritual combat," Dennis Opp said, looking over at him with a slight smile.\par
\par
"Whatever.  And you, Mr. Deem Futz, or whatever your name is, and what kind of a name is that anyway, you don't inspire me.  I don't think there is anything you can say that would change that. Bottom line, mister, is the bottom line. Pastor Smit was a highly decorated enlisted Marine of unquestioned honor and respect who went to seminary and returned as a Navy chaplain.  He served the Corps and then this church. We went looking for someone like him and found Pastor Hartmann-"\par
\par
"Which is exactly why we are looking for a non-Marine."  This was Sandy. He was not at all happy about it.  This was beating a dead horse, and one he had taken no pleasure in while it was still alive.\par
\par
"One mistake."   There was some agreement,"The individual, not the process," Chips pointed out.\par
\par
"There are no Navy chaplains retiring and looking. No Protestants, anyway."\par
\par
"Well, we aren't going to take a priest," someone said.  There was a snort.\par
\par
"We are looking for someone who is wise. Someone who can really teach the law of GOD. Maybe someone with a philosophical background," here Chips nodded towards Dennis,"like I said, someone who is wise. Someone influential, who can turn this church and this town around. Someone respectable, out of one of the famous Epper families maybe, like Doort or Angelis or Paak. You're not quote Epper nobility, are you?"\par
\par
Deem shook his head.\par
\par
"Well, you don't look it, anyway.  We want someone strong, respectable. Someone we can be proud of as a pastor and boast about.  You understand?"\par
\par
\lang9  Deem mildly replied, "Well, there is 1 Corinthians 1" and it missed most of them. Elder Opp turned deep red.  Aaron suddenly found himself he now had a measure of respect for Deem.\lang1033\par
\par
"So, Deacon Aaron Muis, why did you bring this specimen before us?"  Chips looked at Deem with undisguised contempt, from the vomit on his shoes to his damp tie and strangely unnoticable face. "Gaw, man. Why?" His sour look set on Aaron.  At least he was not sharpening a knife at the moment.  \par
\par
"The bishop thinks he would be a good fit."\par
\par
"He's new, after all. Does not know Nicholls."\par
\par
"He knows you well enough."\par
\par
"This Deem Futz is an insult. Take him away.  Please.  Just take him away."   Chips  made a shooing motion with his fingers, brushing him away. \par
\par
Sandy looked up from his knife for a moment at Deem. "I think I will ask one question, and then we will have formally conducted our interview, and this charade can be over.  Now, how in the world can you lead this church?  Think carefully before you answer."  People were already starting to get up to leave. Sandy put away his oil can.  He crumbled the resume into a ball and tossed it perfectly into a trash can some ten feet away. \par
\par
"Well," Deem said, "I would rather be an object of mercy than competent but condemned."\par
\par
"What's that?" It caught them off guard. Dennis Opp nodded slowly, but said nothing. He was younger, somewhere in his fifties or sixties, a retired JAG officer.  He was respected among Eppers outside Nicholls, even serving as an advisor to the seminary, and had been a voice of reason at all times.  Perhaps he could talk to them. \par
\par
Deem repeated it. \par
\par
"I'm not sure what you are saying. Between merit and grace, we lean heavily towards merit. It's a Marine thing." someone told Deem. "You don't seem to measure up."\par
\par
"That is true.  If I pastor this church, it would be by the mercy of God and by His grace, not by my competence."\par
\par
"Your competence. There is nothing on your resume that says you have ever led anything.  No indication of competence anywhere, for any reason."\par
\par
"Yes, I would be trusting God, not myself," Deem said calmly. \par
\par
"Sounds like you have an underdeveloped sense of personal responsibility.  One day with a DI would straighten that out."\par
\par
"He would never make it into the Corps."\par
\par
"No.  Not Marine material."\par
\par
"Definitely not."  \par
\par
Dennis Opp  had a careful, thoughtful look about him now. "Mr. Futz, please repeat what you said."\par
\par
"I said I would rather be an object of mercy than competent but condemned."\par
\par
"Thank you.I can live with it.  Is that original?"\par
\par
"I don't know if it is original. You see -"\par
\par
"I don't want to waste any more time here," Kitten said abruptly. "What happened to Garrison?"  Garrison was an interim pastor, specializing in troubled churches and settlements.  \par
\par
"He's no longer interested."  Aaron told them,"I think he has heard too much about you, bluntly."\par
\par
"Well, we are blunt. People talk.  Sometimes -"\par
\par
"I would like to follow up with this candidate one on one," Denns Opp interrupted Kitten, one of the few who could, "I have some time tomorrow morning.  Would you be available?"\par
\par
Deem nodded. \par
\par
"Let's just get this over with." Several other voices cross-talked, expressing the same thing.  Sandy held up his hand.  "Dennis has the right to do so," he said.   \par
\ul\lang9\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone There was another awkward silence.  Aaron hoped it would end soon, and he could go off somewhere and be miserable.  What could he possibly say to Deem.  Or to the bishop?  This was even worse than he had imagined. They were prolonging this.  He hd hoped for a mercy killing.  Now he would be at this for another day.\par
"Well, we have two other candidates to look at. You'll be preaching Sunday. By the way, with all respect, people are on time in this town. Best to remember that. With all due respect. By coming this late you answered our biggest question. All. Due. Respect. Sir." Sandy gave Deem a half-mocking sloppy salute.  There was nothing halfway about it, Aaron decided a momemt later. \par

\pard\ltrpar With that they explained, there  was work waiting.  Ignoring Deem, they each carefully said their goodbyes to Aaron. "Make sure he cleans up that vomit."  They clumped up the front steps, pointedly looking at and then avoiding the superdisgustingly filthy civilian defiled basement entryway.  \par
\par
"You'll find cleaning supplies in a closet here - somewhere in the basement.  Where, I don't know.  But anyplace this clean has got to have at least one cleaning closet," Aaron told his candidate. "And they want it Marine-clean.  Like your grandmother could eat off of it.  Clean yourself up, too, and then explore the building. Maybe it would help you understand these people better. I'd like to speak to those guys before they leave." Aaron carefull stepped across the vomit and headed toward the parking lot.\par
\lang1033\par
\ul Aaron and the Elders\par
\par
\ulnone "Gentlemen," Aaron called.  All five looked annoyed. The parking lot was hot and they would rather be off it.  There was a combined look of 'Aaron and his pointless, stupid discussions, arrogant ways and we don't like manipulative big-city trash anyway' in that look, if Aaron could read anyone.\par
\par
"We were going to call the bishop and then he would talk to you," Sandy said.\par
\par
"If you have a problem with me, take it up with me."\par
\par
"Fair enough.  I suppose you're going to tell us don't blame you, the bishop put you up to this?"  They were now in a circle, arms crossed, facing him.  Kitten seemed to be  checking the roofs for snipers, but the other four were glaring at him.\par
\par
"The bishop did ask me to bring this candidate here,yes."\par
\par
"And what do you think of him, personally?"\par
              \par
"That is not a valid question - you know that."\par
\par
\line "Well you have an opinion." "You're not that hard to read."\par
\par
\lang9 "He called us \i soldiers\i0 . You should have prepped him. We are Marines. That is enough to sink him right there." The others nodded.\par
\par
"You people wanted another retired Navy chaplain.  Well, they don't want to touch Nicholls."\par
\par
"Why not?"\par
\par
"That should be obvious."  Aaron could tell from their faces it wasn't. "Obvious," he repeated.\par
\par
"Where's Mike? Anyone hear from him?"\par
\par
"I'm trying to get ahold of Spinkster.  I know what he said about Deem from his resume. I figure he just gave up on this church - he wasn't there Sunday, either. He hasn't made church or any of our meetings in over a month now."\par
\par
"After one-fifty years here you can't just give up on this church. A lot of history."\par
\par
"Many people have."  It was painfully true. "Sad to lose Mikee Spinkster. He was a pillar here."\par
\par
"Yep. Despite all the fireworks between him and Hartmann."\par
\par
"Mike turned out to be right."  There were murmurs of agreement and nods.  Sore subject. Everyone wanted to move on.  \par
\par
"I don't coach candidates," Aaron stated, more defensive in tone than he liked,"Let me respond to that."\par
\par
"You didn't coach us.  Let us respond to that."\par
\par
"Not my job, and you know it, or should.  Gentlemen, my job was to see how you interact with the candidate, and vice versa.  Not to try and make things nice. I'm not going to play that game."\par
\par
Aaron saw Whiggins sitting in the back seat of the car.  Spread out around him was a loaf of bread, lettuce, slices of tomato, cheese, and mustard and a bag of apples.  There was a quart of milk on the gravel beside the open door. \par
\par
Deem was still inside the church.  "You -" he started, but the elders caught up to him in the ten feet Aaron had just moved.\par
\par
"Where we going now?" Whiggins asked.  But they ignored him.\par
\par
"This guy is a non-starter.  That is what we are going to tell you. Send him back to wherever he came from."\par
\par
"You talking about me?" Whiggins demanded.  He got up and joined the group.\par
\par
"No, we are not. You are not part of this discussion. Please go sit down."\par
\par
"I want to put my part in for the new guy."\par
\par
"You've known him five minutes or less.  A three block car ride and your are an expert."\par
\par
"Fifty dollars says you wind up with him as pastor. And you like it."\par
\par
"You don't have fifty dollars."\par
\par
Whiggins counted out change. "All right. Forty nine cents."  He was made to go back to the car and sit down.\par
\par
"I've got his back, now. You remember that."  He waved his finger at them.  They ignored him. \par
\par
"The bishop thinks he is a good choice here."\par
\par
"We don't."\par
\par
"What did you expect?  I remember you people saying you needed to get away from the Marine thing, that Hartmann had just made everything worse.  So here is a non-Marine candidate, and what do you do?"\par
\par
"We don't like him."\par
\par
"You don't like him. You don't like him.  You don't like him.  You didn't even really interview him.  There is enough bad blood between you and the presbytery right now that if I go up there and tell them what you did today, I don't know if you will ever get another candidate.  Certainly not a Marine. Maybe someone worse than Deem Futz."\par
\par
"Is that possible? I mean, than Deem Futz?"\par
\par
"You had Hartmann."  They looked at each other. "Tell you what.  Give him a few days. Get to know him. Like Elder Opp said, let him preach Sunday.  See what you think.  And if you don't like him then, fair enough.  But kicking him out after an interview like that is an insult, not only to him, but to the bishop, and so to the presbytery and to the church as a whole.  To God Himself.  And that is how the presbytery will see it. And you are supposed to be stewards of the house of God. I don't thnik you want that. Accountability on all levels.  You will have to answer for this, not just to me but to a lot of people."  Aaron wondered what in the world prompted him to say this.  He would much rather have shoved Deem in the trunk of his car and headed north. That way he would not have to look at him. Through him in his vomit-soaked, coffee-soaked self. Several years earlier Aaron had had to ferry a rejected young candidate from a settlement back to Kansas City, and he had whined the whole way. No surprise that he had been rejected.  The man had never gotten a pulpit, and was doing something somewhere.  Aaron had been told, but he could not recall.  Did Deem whine? Some were silent.  Aaron had seen all kinds.\par
\par
"No, we don't."  This was Dennis Opp, retired Marine Corps judge advocate, now serving as a county judge on a part-time, as needed basis.  "You are right.  We have not really scoped this candidate out. Tell you what, let's each talk to him separately, at length, and see what we think one on one.  Let him preach Sunday.  Now Kitten, I know that you have voiced the most opposition to him." Kitten nodded. "Let him stay at your house.  See what yiou think."  Kitten frowned, his face turning red with anger, but he mastered it and nodded. "We will each take turns interviewing him and get together Monday morning, after his sermon Sunday has a chance to settle and we have heard from a few people about it."\par
\par
"I don't want him at my house," Chips said softly. He got glances and shrugged.\par
\par
That sounded fair to everyone.  Dennis Opp had been an elder when Pastor Smit had been here.  He, Sandy Sands and Mike Spinkster had all been there and were still elders. Three of the five could be counted on to give a fair opinion.  Kitten would as always go his own way. Nathan Bread was the wild card.  He had come on the board with Hartmann here but also always went his own way.  He was an enigma to Aaron, who prided himself on his ability to read people.  Somewhere behind that expressionless face wheels were turning, and he would come out with an unexpected insight. He seldom spoke, except for the sometimes sharp mark of wit or insight.  He would give Deem a fair hearing.  That was four, then, of the five. Chips had been Hartmann's choice and had always thought Hartmann had done a fine job, even now.  He would have kept Hartmann on. \par
\par
"Is he the only candidate?" Kitten asked.  And here Aaron had thought the conversation over.\par
\par
"No. There are two others." Hadn't he mentioned this already? \par
\par
"How about if we meet the others and just say no to Deem."\par
\par
"We just went over that, didn't we?"\par
\par
"I say stick it to the bishop and send him back."\par
\par
"Kitten, no. We already went over why we can't do that."\par
\par
"I will tell you one thing that I think you have missed about this candidate," Aaron said, wondering why he was saying it, wondering why, suddenly, he was taking Deem's side when it was so easy to just walk away.  "\lang1033 Deem really has something that you should admire, endurance, and there is strength in his weakness.  That should give you  something to think about. He's overcome a lot to make it this far.  That is why the bishop backs him.  He has a lot of perseverance."\par
\par
"We are into endurance. Good point.  The gaps in his transcript aren't that he was dilatory."  This was Dennis Opp, considering both sides of everything carefully.  Dennis had been an elder when Pastor Smit was still alive, and knew his stuff, was respected nationally even.  He was on the seminary board, perhaps he even knew of some of Deem's travails better than Aaron did.  So why was he favoring Deem?  What was Aaron missing?  He wondered. Maybe there was more weight to what he had said than he realized and the judge saw it. Aaron found himself saying, "No, judge.  You can ask him about that.  He overcame things to make it through seminary.  A lot like the apostle Paul."  Come on, Aaron, he told himself. That's too much.\par
\par
"He's single.  Whoever heard of a single pastor? Is this some papist innovation?"\par
\par
"He had a girlfriend named Sarah.  When she found out he wanted to be a pastor, she dropped him.  He's been too busy since to get one. Or a wife."\par
\par
"If God wants him to have a wife, He will issue him one." This was Nathan Bread.\par
\par
"Thank you, Chesty Puller," Dennis Opp said.\par
\par
"Why doesn't the bishop come down here and explain to us why we should invite this guy to pastor us?"\par
\par
"He sent me."\par
\par
"So defend the guy."\par
\par
"Let me lay it out for you.  One. You guys really raised a stink about getting rid of Pastor Hartmann.  If there was a way to do it to irritate everyone, you found it. Now you want a golden pastor?  We will help you, but there are limits people are setting. Secondly, this is a town church but it is the size of a settlement, and the church itself is small and might fold.  You cannot support a full-time pastor, which means you get a subsidy.  People up in the presbytery are doubtful that is worthwhile.  Many people favor just letting this church fold.  Scatter the people.  Go elsewhere.  The bishop is not in favor of that.  He is in favor of getting the best pastor he can find.  He was in Michigan when Deem was in seminary - one of the first things he had to deal with when he came was the business with Hartmann, you will recall - and Deem made an impression on him as someone who would not give up.  That is a primary need here. Now, I would suggest you walk through the interview process, as stated.  You are not going to attract a better graduate pastor, nor an experienced pastor.  That is the bottom line.  The bishop found only three people willing to come here.  Of those, Deem is his top candidate.  You will like the other two even less.  So we are expecting you to reject all three because you are too picky.  You are regarded as uncooperative, among other things.  Simple to just make this Nicholls church go away.  It's a shame, but the bishop is rooting for you."\par
\par
"By insulting us with this candidate?"\par
\par
"By providing the best candidate he can find. You are not exactly the best-thought-of or most glamourous church in the world. I'd say, to be blunt, you are at the bottom."\par
\par
"You think he has what it takes to pull this church together again?"\par
\par
"No, but God does.  He may be the instrument the Lord has chosen."\par
\par
"There's humility for you."\par
\par
"They are still unhappy about us getting rid of Hartmann."\par
\par
"The church may close if we install this Deem fellow."\par
\par
"It may close anyway."\par
\par
"There is the Ranch."\par
\par
"Bunch of torn-up trailers with poor old people, that's all there is." Sandy looked up sharply at the speaker, walked out of the circle and came back a moment later.\par
"They passed their peak decades ago.  Probably worse than the trailer court.  Johnson probably bought 'em out and is doing God knows what out there.  If it weren't for Kikker the whole place would be deserted again.  No. The church over in Clinton or the one in Grandview. Nevada is too far.  We might as well close the doors if either of these other two candidates is no good."\par
\par
"It's a shame - the whole thing.  Probably Deem Fuzz is the best of the three.  That is a shame. It iused to be that we got good candidates.  That's before we ticked everybody off - the bishop AND the presbytery."\par
\par
"Let me look at that." Dennis gestured to the papers under Aaron's arm.  He'd gathered the resume and application copies the elders had left, including the wadded up one in the trash.\par
\par
"Deem has unusual initiative, enthusiasm, and endurance it says on this reference."\par
\par
"I didn't see that in the interview. What fool wrote that about him?"\par
\par
"He is now the bishop."\par
\par
"I fond  \lang9 all three singularly lacking in him from the interview."\par
\par
"That wasn't really an interview," Dennis said, and then, "Hey Chips, a word. Walk with me."  Dennis Opp had been some kind of high-ranking officer, and Chips had been a corporal or something.  They walked off together, with Dennis quietly talking . \par
\par
\cf1\lang1033\par
\par
\strike Kitten is the gung-hoingest Marine, Nathan is more thoughtful, Dennis a judge and retired Marine officer having served in the Marine justice system, Mike ??? Chips a farmer with theological bent, Sandy Sands ex-Ranch ex-Marine. \strike0\par
\par
\cf0\par
\ul Deem In The Church\ulnone\par
\par
Deem searched the church basement for the cleaning closet.  T\lang9 he basement doubled as a fellowship hall, where he was now, and currently had folding tables and folding chairs set up in neat, orderly, overly precise rows.  There were little marks on the floor where the table corners should go, he noted. It was likely surveying equipment had been used to get them exact, and the marks were identical in length and direction. Eppers tended to be excessively and obsessively concerned with detail, but this went beyond Deem's experience.  The mop closet, with the stenciled "MOP CLOSET Authorized Personnel Only" on the door in red,  held the water heater and furnace, and a sink with the coffee maker and supplies, but no mop or cleaning supplies.  The mop and bucket were in a corner of the smallrestroom, standing attention next to a rigorously ordered metal shelf with cleaning supplies laid out precisely, everything immaculately scrubbed and clean. There was a large locked closet that said "DECORATIONS" on its sign, and "DECORATING COMMITTEE ONLY" in stenciled letters. Upstairs was the sanctuary. No office. No nursery. But everything was scrubbed to an inch of its life.  \par
\par
The foyer was the width of the building, about ten feet or so wide.  It was completely bare.  One said held the door to the outside, the other to the sanctuary.  He debated with himself - would he really want to go into a sanctuary of a church that would never be his - like he was so close, but so far away.  It would be easier to stay out, to never know what it looked like, to go out the door and never look back.  He put his hand on the door knob and stopped.  He turned around and walked into the sanctuary instead.\par
\par
"Meet Every Challenge With Your All," read one banner. Another, "Be Strong and Very Courageous, for the Lord Your God is with You Wherever You Go - Josh 1:9" read another, and "Suffer Hardship with Me as a Good Marine of Christ Jesus 2 Tim 2:3".  There was that quiet sadness again.  "Greater Love Has No Man Than This,That He Lay His Life Down For His Friends John 15:13." \lang1033\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 He had an eerie feeling of being quietly, patiently, lovingly watched.   Suddenly the walls were covered with pictures of young men in uniform, some in groups of twenty or so, some staring out, with the US flag in the background.  There were little labels on the pictures. "We finished our race. We gave our all. Will You?" he could read in the eyes of Edmund Spence, Cpl USMC, 1900-1918 KIA. There was a picture of a couple, smiling, in civilian clothing , against a tropical background, but instead of the US flag was a white flag with a blue cross on it. 'John and Angela Bourne, Missionaries 2015, KIA".  He remembered that incident as it had happened while he was at sem: they had been taken hostage on the mission field and killed. KIA, then, was 'Killed in Action'.   This church had paid in blood for its right to exist. This town was - well, he, Deem Futz was first of all unworthy to be here, but this answered something in him that this church, this town, was really alien to him, and there was no way he could ever measure up or even understand them.  There were other pictures of missionaries, other military pictures.  The walls were covered with them, all of them looking out, the missionaries with smiling, relaxed faces.  All of them had the dates completed.  All were KIA or MIA.  Not Momma Mia. Missing in Action?  He could hear soft, music playing.  But he was alone.  He drew his breath - behind these pictures were other pictures, of men and women from a bygone time, all looking at him, and behind them, another row, and then more, receding into the distance, into history.\par
Under the gaze of the pictures he stepped onto the platform.  He stood behind the pulpit and looked out. The great Jake Profim had preached here.  He had seen a picture of Jake preaching.  He had grasped the pulpit with both hands - Deem's fingers felt little worn grooves where decades of Epper preachers had grasped that pulpit as if at sea in a wild storm.  He let go and stepped back.  The grooves were barely visible, but they were there.  He felt himself completely, absolutely unworthy of the priviledge of preaching, let alone in such a place.  And Pastor Smit had preached here, another giant of the faith.  Hartmann had never preached here  - he came and went in the new building.  Deem looked at the little rows of pews. Enough of this.\par
\par
He sat down, three pews back from the front,, in the silent church, in the stillness.  In the remote past, he remembered, he had powerfully experienced the presence of God in a silent church. But now waves of feeling from his youth were rising, when he had read too much science fiction. The cold, hard, uncaring vacuum of space. The wheeling, uncaring stars. The cosmic emptiness. The lack of meaning of life.  Futility. All was vanity. What meaning could any of this have?  What purpose? What goal was there that was worth pursuing? What treasure besides a God who was silent and absent? As a deep pants for water so my heart yearns for Thee, O God, he prayed. Why would men replace heaven with a cold hardness of space, and exchange God who loved them for an apathetic cosmos that woud indifferently crush them? Why do people turn from Him Who will not turn from them? And yet, how far, how far off God could seem, so far away. God I know you care. How about a little in the feelings, in the perception, in my mundane reality?\par
"Blessed are those who do not see, and yet believe."  he heard himself saying.\par
Silence.  Outside even the crickets had given it up.  He looked up.  The pictures were gone.  He looked at every wall. No pictures.  It had been so real, so moving, so true.  The music was gone.  There was a deep, deep silence, a depth that ended so far down that it was beyond his perception, but he knew there was a power and a will there that held the universe together. Strange that he should think such things.  He was not prone to visions or hallucinations.  Perhaps he was still ill, or the stress of the interview was getting to him.  He breathed slowly in the silence, praying quietly. \par
The church door opened and there were footsteps.  Someone was entering the church. He really wanted to be alone just now.  Alone with his misery and the fact that God was silent and seemed to have abandoned him. He would get over it, someday. He fought some bitter feelings.  How could he argue that God had abandoned him?  Yet there was the hard cold fact of that interview, of there being absolutely no prospects.  This was the edge of the cliff. Past here he did not know what he would do.  This was the end of hope, and the only thing past here was an abyss of madness, hopelessness and despair.  Would he fall in? \par
The footsteps came closer .It did not sound like Aaron. He pretended not to hear them.  He became aware they had stopped at the end of the pew he was in. Someone was standing there. He turned and looked.\par
It was the  elder, the one with the longer hair and the shorter beard and the kind eyes, the one Mabel had waved to when he came in.  They were the kindest and gentlest eyes Deem had ever seen. He felt like he had known this man a long time, although he could not place him.  By bearing he was clearly an elder.  He could be nothing else. \par
"Mind if  I join you?"\par
Deem beckoned with his hand, not trusting his powers of speech, and turned to face forward. again.  The elder sat as if he had made a calculation as to how close he could sit to Deem that Deem would neither feel like his own personal space was being violated or that the elder was too far away.\par
Neither said anything.  But Deem could hear the elder breathing. It was a soothing, regular, sure thing, like it had begun before the foundation of the world and would go on afterward: confident, enduring.  An easy and a light breathing.  Nothing would every be too hard for it. Ever.  There was a strength in it.  The man would not leave and Deem did not really want him to. He found he was glad he was there.\par
It was an odd thing, this.  It was like this living, breathing, warm human being sitting within arm's reach, by his very presence, made all the thoughts of isolation and abandonment and the cold hard emptiness vanish, run away and hide.  There was meaning and purpose and a charity and a joy and a laughter behind the silence of the universe. It wa silent, he thought, because it was trying not to laugh.  Was he quoting Chesterton? Not sure. He had a hunger for God because God had made him hungry for God, because God intended to fulfill that hunger and not just frustrate him.  There was a purpose.  It was not chasing rainbows in search of a pot of gold at the end.  It was the rainbow as God's promise, and God was capable of fulfilling the promise, and would.  How dry he had been.  Now, not so dry. There was reason for hope, and so there was hope.  Whether he got this position or not, life would go on. God was still in control.  If he wanted Deem to have a suburban DC church, he would get one. Deem said to himself that God's plan was the best and such a church would just be rubbish if it was not what God wanted.  All things were behind him. Press on. \par
It was like he had had an enormous bundle tied to his back - his past - and he cut the ropes. It slid off into the past, or down into that abyss that had been open before him.  It tumbled down there, falling, growing smaller, away, away, away, down and down.  That was then. This was now.  There was a future, though he did not see it or know it.  He could go on.  He sat there, happier than he had been in a long time, for several minutes.\par
As they sat there, silent, Deem felt encouraged. He was not alone. He turned to say something to the elder about how he appreciated him being there.\par
He WAS alone.  How or when the man had left, Deem did not know. He must have either been concentrating or asleep.  Odd, that.  But he left behind a different way of looking at things, something that Deem could go on with. Now it was like he had long ago been at the end of a rope and had let go. Deem felt, oddly, like he had been caught. \par
Deem stayed some minutes, hoping the elder would return.  He did not.\par
He looked at the pictures looking at him. As he sat in the presence of God and this cloud of witnesses he felt himself hardening, rising to the challenge. Determination rose in him to do this, to not walk away defeated. How could he, after this?  He was no longer unable to win. He was only able to win. A strange thought, a strange feeling, a turning point. He knew things would be different.  Life had changed.  Not only "going on" but living.  He felt like he could breathe again, like joy was possible, like he could sing. Really, this little town and its church, its proud elders, were a speck of dust in God's sight, a drop in the bucket.  He, Deem Futz, was beloved of God.  God was in control. All things would work out.\par
Oh, the Deep Deep Love of Jesus.  Number 71 in the hymnal.  There was one in the pew-rack in front of him.  He opened it to Number 71, and a small piece of paper fell out and onto the floor.  It said "1 Sam 16:7 ".  He could not recall the verse, so he looked it up.  "What do you know," he said to himself, "What do you know."\par
Deem looked around the sanctuary one last time and left.  It was likely he would never return, but he would always remember this place.  And he was preaching Sunday, so he would be back.  To his surprise there was no lock on the front door.   \par

\pard\ltrpar\lang1033\par
\par
\ul Outside the Church\ulnone  \par
\cf2\f1\lang9\par
\cf0\f0 The old lady who had been at the back of the room was still there, sitting in the shade on the front porch.  Aaron wondered why waiting around for Deem was anything she should be doing in this heat. The door opened and there was Deem - the time in the church had been good for him, anyway, despite the interview, and he looked rested and relaxed.  He'd cleaned up the vomit anyway - Aaron had seen him working at it - and there were some wet spots still on his suit.  \par
\par
How would Deem interact with her?  She introduced herself as Mabel something - Aaron didn't catch it. They acted like they knew each other.  Odd. What did Deem want prayer for?  This should be good, Aaron thought.  \cf2\f1  \f0  \cf0 'God's will be done here,' he said, and she asked if there was anything particular for him, and he said that was for him, pointing to his heart. She nodded, they shook hands in a way that suggested she deeply respected him, and she left.  Crack pot. \par
\cf2\par
\cf0\lang1033  Deem interacts with a few people outside the church.  Aaron notices Deem \tab has a real ability to enter into someone else's emotional world and they feel it, \tab that he is on their side.  Unusually so.\par
\par
A man in a uniform that closely resembled Marine blues got out of a jeep and walked over to Deem. He handed him an envelope and waited while Deem opened it.\par
\par
In a beautifully clear script Deem read:\par
\par
" Pastoral Candidate Phutz, Mayor Southwark requests the pleasure of your presence in his office as soon as is reasonable today.  He would like to meet you.  Cordially, Administrative Assistant A. Tliel."\par
\par
"Tliel?" Deem asked.\par
"Pronounced Tuliel", the man in uniform said.\par
\par
"Amy Tliel, the mayor's administrative assistant and personal whore," Kitten said. Deem looked startled. The man in uniform said nothing.\par
\par
"I will be happy to come," Deem broke the silence.  \par
\par
Deem, Aaron and Kitten met the Mayor in his office.  Mayor Southwark was glad to meet him and hopes things will be smooth between the City and the new pastor, and they can work together on the identified biggest problems in town, such as homeless people drifting in from the trailer court and people not physically fit. Also people were violating the do not wash order on vehicles - here he looked at Kitten - and he wass sure there are other problems that the good pastor can address.  Kitten tells him to go to hell for no reason that Deem or Aaron can see. Where did Deem serve? The mayor was taken aback at the answer but recovered.  "I am sure you will be an improvement over Pastor Hartmann.  No cooperation out of that man." Kitten replied that Southwark had not deserved any cooperation.  The mayor had pressing duties, and it had been a pleasure, and they were shown the door.  \par
\par
"Baboon in Johnson's pay," muttered Kitten.  Deem looked at him curiously.  Aaron withheld comment, per protocol.  \par
\par
"Who is Johnson?" Deem asked.\par
\par
"He is that big swaggering banker up in Harrisonville.  He bankrolled the mayor's campaign and has bought a lot of prroperty around town.  He even bought Nicholls Bank."  Amy was watching this from her desk. "Tell you later," Kitten ended.  "If Johnson wasn't so stingy, he would get Southwark a higher grade than you," he told the girl.  She shrugged. \par
\par
"Listen, Deem, I need to make a phone call to the bishop.  I'll let you out here and you can explore the town.  I'm sorry, but that phone call must be private."  Deem understood, and understood what would be said.  "I'll pick you up in front of Butler's in an hour, okay?"  Deem nodded.\par
\par
Deem had a run in with Crazy Harry.  He met Nathan Bread in Butler's, who kept Crazy Harry from picking another fight.  Afterwards Deem wandered down to the courthouse square.  He looked at the Memorial to the War Dead, Classes of 1940-1945, reads the names, wonders who they were, what they would have been like if they had lived.  In another corner was a memorial to the Dead of the Great War, and then another for the Korean Conflict, and one for Viet Nam.  "James Pfingster" he read. Any relation to Kitten? The square was dominated by the Bank of Nicholls on one side, some law firms, a restaurant that looked a bit similar to Butler's - \i La Grenouille Engraiss\'e9e, \i0 but the awnings were finer and there was gold-looking trim.  Plus, the door framed a cross between a ma\'eetre d' and a special forces warrior - buzz cut, white towel over arm, white shirt and bow-tie, holster on his right hip and a sheath for a knife on the left, sheath sticking out of his highly polished right boot, huge muscles protruding from his rolled-up sleeves.  Law offices, a title office, a bail bond service, a barber shop and a few other offices completed the square around the limestone courthouse, two stories tall with  basement window peeking over the grass.  \par
\par
\ul Car ride to Pfingsters'\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\lang9 They drove northnpast the end of the brick-fronted buildings on Main, past a block of two-story mammoth frame houses, each fronted by small, stunted looking trees with shriveled leaves and carefully tended but dried grass - there was a no-watering order on -and turned right.  There was no sign, but this was Henderson.   After a few block  of these houses with wide porches all around and trees and each with a garden, and most with a US flag and a USMC flag proudly flying, the sound rose of an angry old man yelling at people. "Get off my lawn!" he was yelling, with various obscenities thrown in.  \par
"Who is that, do you know?"  Deem asked.\par
"That is Kitten Pfingster. You're staying there tonight."  Aaron smiled to himself.\par
"He's a good friend to any Marine," Whiggins said from the backseat.\par
"I'm not a Marine," Deem calmly replied.\par
"Oh," Whiggins said,"Oh."\par
The yelling got louder as they came closer to the house.  \par
Whiggins rubbed his hands together. "Anyway to get this off me?"\par
"What? The dirt?"\par
"No.  There is blood all over my hands."  Aaron breathed in sharply, but not so sharply that Whiggins could hear. \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\ul\lang1033\par
\ulnone Deem tells Aaron of the elder. Aaron wonders if Deem is losing it, on top of everything else.  Aaron cautions him that Kitten Pfingster wants a close look at him alone, and is the elder most opposed to Deem. Win him over, and he is in.  Otherwise, no.\par
\par
On the way to Pfingsters', where he would be staying - there were no hotels in Nicholls - \par
Deem tolf Aaron about the elder - one that Aaron did not see in the initial meeting, the one who later came into the sanctuary.  Aaron was concerned that Deem is hallucinating.  Aaron observes and hears about various people's reactions to Deem.  Aaron leaves with the bishop Sunday afternoon.  Deem moves from being a complete stranger to barely being tolerated. Not Marine material. Suffering is not central to the Christian walk, they tell him: victory over the enemy is. \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Aaron drove alone back to the bishop's residence.  "Deem really does have perseverance. I was not wrong about that." He thought about how he had arrived, half-starved and sick, three weeks earlier, and they had had to nurse Deem back to health. Somehow he had become best buddies with half the staff at the bishopiric, something that Aaron had missed until right now.  Deem had had every kind of illness and financial and legal trouble in seminary, including an arrest (it dragged on for two years, at the end of which Deem was cleared), suspension due to non-payment of tuition, academic suspension, both suspensions at the same time, a cursory investigation by the Committee on Doctrinal Purity, twenty interviews with churches and settlements that he got passed over on, and some had gone so badly the Placement Office had received angry letters about why Deem had been sent in the first place. But it was never character, always circumstances.  Deem had graduated the "goat" in his class - actually two classes later than normal due to his difficulties - and had had to repeat several courses.  He was no shining star. He had no spectacular gifts.  He was almost invisible in a crowd.\par
\par
Aaron recalled when he had met Deem at the bus station.  Aaron had stood there, looking for him with a sign, and he was startled when he heard his name mentioned. He looked around, and suddenly he realized Deem was standing right in front of him but he had not noticed he was there.  And this was going to be the leader the Marines here would follow?  And was he delusional on top of it?\par
\par
"God have mercy on him.  God have mercy on me in this situation.  God have mercy on the church in Nicholls." So he prayed all the way back to the bishopric, where he would make his report.  There would be none of the 'I told you so' he had thought he would be delivering.  So what would he say?  He gave that some thought and mixed it with prayer as he passed through Cass County back to the office in KC.\par
\par
 Deem was a 'man of sorrows and acquainted with grief'. How had Aaron not seen that?   Had God abandoned Deem? From what he had said, he regarded suffering as a gift, but it is, after all, suffering.  He was no masochist and did not regard God as a sadist. Life can be defined as how we respond to suffering - with an open, grateful heart or bitterness. He had chosen gratitude as the only response he saw open to the Christian.  Deem understood his significance was from God not man.  When that is all you have, you must see that.  God had stripped away everything non-essential from this man, including health, wealth, respect, leadership gifts, prominence, even height.  This Deem Futz was no shallow, fly-by night, health-and-wealth Christian.  He had gone into the depths and mysteries of God, and Aaron had missed that.  Likely the bishop had seen it.  In the depths of this man there was a deep connection with God that could be seen for those with eyes to see it.     \par
\par
Despite everything, Deem rejected the idea that God was hidden or silent, a sometimes flowing stream.  God is always there, always supporting, always trustworthy. Aaron was surprised that Deem was not an advocate of the Hidden God Who reveals Himself episodically, whether on Sinai, at the Jordan, Calvary, or the Second Coming. That was the official position of the denomination at present, that we wait for those great movements of God, outside of which God does not move, speak or act, although it was acceptable to veer off that position somewhat.  Deem maintained that God is always revealing Himself, for those who have eyes to see. For that reason he could not be a cessationist.  Aaron was surprised the CDP didn't go after him. Deem had replied that they didn't think he would go anywhere and he wasn't worth bothering with. He'd been told that, bluntly, by someone on the CDP. They had bigger, actual fish to fry.  He wasn't worth it. He'd shrugged.  He had consigned his life to God, and whatever happened, happened.  Aaron didn't think he had ever before seen such brokenness and surrender in anyone, and it was in an off-hand way.  You didn't notice it. Deem did not trumpet it or make sure you knew about it.  He would not tell you, would not bother telling you about it. You would have to listen and look for it, and like the man himself, you might overlook it. \par
\par
Who was this Deem Futz?  How could he lead a church full of gung ho Marines? Aaron smiled at that simpleton.  His own complexity was a hallmark of himself as a political animal and had allowed him to rise in confidence in the view of many.  In time this new bishop would give him more and more.  He had once been naive, long ago, but there were things you had to do sometimes, for the church, that brought a maturity on one. He'd been making more and more of those compromised choices recently.  He wished he could get back to the naivite of a Deem Futz.  When he sold his soul, he hoped it would bring a high price.  But didn't that mean he had already?\par
\par
What can a man give in exchange for his soul, he thought to himself, and, that Deem Futz is having a disturbing effect on me. \par
\par
\cf2\f1\lang9  \cf0\f0\lang1033\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 3 Deem at Pfingsters\ulnone\b0 '\par
\par
\cf2\f1\lang9\tab\cf5  \cf2 For unknown reasons Whiggins takes on himself the role of Deem's servant, brushing his clothes and taking care of him, although eating in the kitchen and has 'lower decks manners.  This guy, accepted by Deem, is on parole? for a crime he will not discuss.  Aaron has severe objections but Deem accepts him.\par
\par
Whiggins spends a long time washing his hands. They are perfectly clean, but he tells Deem he can still see the blood.  They go off and have a long talk alone. \cf0\f0\lang1033\par
\par
When Aaron pulled up, Kitten, ramrod straight and angry, was barking at people to get off his lawn. He sourly looked at Aaron and more so at Deem after they pull in.  There was a small crowd that Kitten dispersed because the show was over.  The heat was also immense. He had come home to find them on his crunchy brown lawn that normally he exterminated every weed in and checked the past locations of all weeds that had ever dared attempt an attack over the last fifty years.  In good weather it was like a carpet.  Now it was brittle brown clumps standing between pale brown, baked dirt and small rocks, which annoyed Kitten even more, because he wanted a solid sea of green, but the topsoil was not very deep and the rocks would rise somehow, like little corks or something. Maddening. He stomped down the path to the driveway to meet the car before they, too, violated his holy lawn. \par
\par
"Whiggins," he said, and broke out in a smile."Good to see you."\par
\par
"Good to see you too, Sarge.  Didn't know you were in on this."\par
\par
"Yeah.  Pastor Hartmann made me an elder. Didncha know? I'm the oldest living Marine in this town, so I gotta be an elder. So I was made elder.  And now this candidate is staying with me tonight."\par
\par
"Is he? He's a fine man, Kitten."  \par
\par
"I'll be the judge of that."\par
\par
"You know him?" Aaron was aghast.\par
\par
"This is a small town," Kitten responded. "Everyone knows everyone. And everyone's business.  This whoreson is Whiggins. Now, he is staying with me. Ain't that right?"\par
\par
"Thanks, Kitten. Don't mind it. I'm Deem's personal assistant."\par
\par
"Deem, your stock just went up a bunch with me on that.  Whiggins, straighten him out."  This was absolutely and completely meaningless in Aaron's ears. \par
\par
"Aye-aye sir."\par
\par
"Sarge and my grandfather served together."\par
\par
"Fox hole buddies on Okinawa. His grandfather and me.  I kept that young poorly trained Marine alive.  Better than I could do for a lot of guys.  They would show up and die before we got to know them - a lot of them were just rushed through boot camp and shipped out, because the Corps needed bodies, and they got bodies out of it, grave yards full of bodies."\par
\par
"Whenever it got cold and rainy, Granddad could not sleep, and Sarge here would take him out and they would sit in a muddy hole."\par
\par
"Just like Okinawa.  That was the only place he could sleep sometimes, his last few years.  Whenever it was cold and rainy, he would get up and pace.  Could not sleep for the life of him. Waist deep in cold muddy water, he could sleep under a poncho."\par
\par
"And you both got pneumonia."\par
\par
"Yeah. Only he didn't make it, and I did, and I'm older.  Some things you just don't need the reason for.  I knew your dad, a good egg, and then there is you. What happened to your bearing? You're a Marine, and look at you!"\par
\par
"I came back and found out about my family. No excuse, sir."\par
\par
"They never told you? Those Rear Echelon Mother - figures?"\par
\par
"No. We were out taking a long walk in the sand at the time. When we came in from the cold, I wasn't where I started from.  News didn't reach us.  And then I got sent home, and them dead."\par
\par
"Sorry, son."\par
\par
"I talked to Pastor Hartmann.  He was no help.  So I went downhill. But now I am personal servant to Pastor Deem Futz. Life will be better."\par
\par
"You are, are you? We'll see about that. Now go inside and get yourself a shower and a shave. We'll burn those clothes.  Leave them on the back porch. No, don't go into the house until you strip.  I'll find you some clothes. Then go get that hair dealt with. Shower's upstairs. "\par
\par
"One more thing. You're dealing with Christians here. God already passed faith out to us and it is your turn. I got Jesus back in the 50s," Kitten said,""What that Jesus needed was some properly trained Marines.  That cross business would never have happened if He had a rifle squad, any rifle squad in the Corps," Kitten said. "But you got to admire a guy who rises from the dead.  It's like he's God or something. Now He is commander in chief of the armies of God! General Jesus, that's what I like to call Him. He's going to come back and clean out the enemy positions with overpowering firepower. He is a combat officer AND He will get you an in with God on a personal basiis, cause of a family connection there.  It's all on the up and up because he's also a judge advocate and he will straighten things out between you and God, yes sir indeed, and declare you INNOCENT on all charges.  You just salute him and say yes sir to whatever he orders and he will get your butt out of hell if he has to. He's the DI in the sky. You understand?"\par
\par
"Wow," Whiggins said,"I never heard it put like that. Receiving faith, now, sir," Whiggins called, from the other side of the house. \par
\par
"Me neither," Aaron said. When this candidate business was over, maybe he would go on a retreat.  A long retreat somewhere with lots of trees. Birds.  Calm streams of water. He thought of Pickle Creek State Park.  Somewhere like that. \par
\par
"That's the way to do evangelism," Kitten said, teaching these kids, Aaron and Deem,"Order 'em to believe. They will. Works everytime."\cf1\par
\cf0\par
\par
Deem barely made it up the stairs to his barracks-style two bunk room with an air conditioner in the window, decorated with a map of Pelileu and a medals display. Whiggins was sleeping in the basement, so Deem had the room to himself.  Kitten informed him Deem would be down for supper, and Kitten showed him where he himself had landed on the map, and where he thought he was when they took him off the battlefield wounded - unconcious at the time - and he had found himself on a hospital ship.  Kitten told how he had managed to shoot his mouth off and stay in combat after almost everyone else had been rotated off.  And then he had gone to China.  Didn't do much between the end of that and Korea. He'd actually managed to retire as a Marine.  Drove a truck for years for different companies.  Deem quickly saw that Kitten was not living in the present.  He was the last alive, old and his friends were all dead.  One son is buried in Nicholls Cemetary, killed in Nam many years ago now.  He had other sons, all Marine vets. Fine men. Good eggs.  Deem noted he was fond of saying someone is a good egg.  He'd never written a book, unlike that Sledge or that Leckie fellow, although he'd read part of both but could not finish.  Too many memories. Both of them were dead and buried years ago.  Now, finally, they were at peace from the war.  It had always been with him.\par
\par
Deem accidentally dropped a water glass from the bannister at the top of the stair down onto the floor below.  Kitten, sitting in the dining area, hit  the deck.  He was furious. Water and glass everywhere.  Was that on purpose?  \par
\par
Whiggins insisted on eating in the kitchen if Deem was there, him being an officer and all and Whiggins his servant.  It was clear he considered himself such.  He cleaned up well and took care of Deem's clothing, shined his shoes and ran errands for him when needed.  Sometimes he just functioned as a bodyguard. \par
\cf2\f1\lang9\par
Kitten longed for the days when they had had a 4 AM town bugle, long discontinued.  It was when he was a boy. People exercised back then, people were in shape. None of this civilian lying in bed until all hours, this deplorable slackness seen in so many today.  That was the closest he came to directly rebuking Deem.\cf0\f0\lang1033\par
\par
\lang9 Kitten may be more of a caricature than I would like.    \cf2\f1\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\cf0\f0\lang1033\par
\par
Hollow-eyed stares at times.  'I lived through it and now I have to live with it.' 'Wth what?' 'Terror. For me the war will never be over.'  'Are you still angry with the Japanese?" "No. I worked through that. I hated them - we all did - but I think I am over that now.  But don't ask me to eat at a Japanese restaurant.'  Still was having nightmares.\par
\par
That night Kitten had a nightmare, wherein he was told to return to the front lines on Okinawa after being in reserve.  He woke up in a cold sweat, screaming.  Deem prayed for him, and he is surprised when he gets a sound night of sleep Thursday night.  Then Friday, and onward.  No one had prayed for him before, and he wondered why not, he told his wife. Her response was that she had been praying for him ever since he got back from the Pacific, and this was about the first time he had been able to sleep all night for two nights in a row.   Has buddies wounded, some in the Vet Home in Nicholls.  He takes Deem there. \par
\par
Kitten continually watched for snipers and will not go down certain streets in Nicholls with large trees.  He scanned rooflines habitually and has enormous situational awareness.  He is still stuck in World War 2.  He cannot abide fire works and sudden loud noises make him hit the deck.  He is a combat vet of Guadalcanal, Cape Gloucester, Pelielieu and the occupation of Manchuria - as well as Inchon and Pusan.  He also sees things, whether hallucinations or realities, and remembers false things.  Sargeant Colson, for example, was killed on Cape Gloucester, but Kitten sees him around town.  A Marine named Charles had died in 2014 but Kitten was insisting lately that he had died on Guadalcanal and they had gotten the date wrong. He also sees Marines guarding the church and Marine sentries around his house.  Sometimes he checks on them. He smells a Japanese position to the southwest and often wonders when the brass will order it taken out. \par
\par
 Kitten expected Deem to complain and whine. Before Deem said anything, Kitten said, "Cut the crap. We are interested in what you can do for us, not what happened to you." Deem thanked him for getting to the point  Kitten thought about it and says he realized Deem has not been complaining.  But he should be, says Kitten. Maybe. In any case he, Kitten Pfingster, was out of line. "I apologize," he told Deem, who shrugged it off.\par
\par
In evaluating Deem Kitten, then said he had to choose between Marine Corps gut-feel of what a good leader is, and the truth.  He had never had to do this before. He had lived by the fourteen traits. Kitten reeled them off.  Deem did not appear to be what he really was, Kitten admitted, which was why Kitten had just not straight-out rejected him.  Fair is fair and Kitten sought justice here.\par
\par
Deem did not seem to be able to say anything right in Kitten's eyes.  But Kitten kept backing off from that when he realized he was being unfair to Deem.\par
\par
Kitten showed Deem a map of Pelileu on the wall of his room. It showed the landing beaches and in red, hand-drawn, was a line that Kitten told him is the best guess as to his own movements.  There was a display case of medals and ribbons. "Yours?""No, my son's," Kitten said.  "The one we buried." \par
\par
There were also the fourteen USMC Leadership Traits on a poster, with Scripture references beneath each one and an expository paragraph.  Kitten watched Deem read through them. "That's what I'm talking about." Deem nodded. \par
\par
\par
In the middle of the night Kitten woke to use the head. He saw the light was on in Deem's room. He tiptoed in and saw Deem asleep at his desk and the sermon notes. He read enough Greek to realize there was a problem: this was hardly a promising start to a sermon.  He had noted Deem's procrastination silently at other points.  He could not hold Deem to Marine standards.  But he had to find a standard by which passing or failure would be valid. Somehow Deem had to merit it.  He couldn't just walk in and be given a pastorate, could he?\par
\par
\par
In the early morning Deem carried the empty water glass he had taken to his room and put it on the bannister while he tucked his shirt in. The glass fell, shattering onto the floor twenty feet below.  Downstairs he found Kitten hit the deck automatically. Getting up furious and red-faced  Kitten was initially suspicious that Deem had done it deliberately, but decided it was an accident. Deem insisted on cleaning it up and Kitten's wife, Marigold, silently handed him a broom and dust pan. Kitten was unhappy about the new dent in the wood floor. "A touch with the iron and it will be gone," she said soothingly,"worse things happen in love and war." "Yes, they do," Kitten replied. "It won't happen again, will it?" Deem said it would not.\par
\par
"We don't have fireworks around here, and we avoid loud, sudden noises," Marigold tells Deem. Kitten looks out of a Higgins boat at a tropical shore ahead, that shore revealing shattered palm trees between the explosions from sixteen inch shells.  Then he is back.\par
\par
At breakfast  Kitten asked him "simple" questions before his fellow elder Dennis Opp arrived to grill him. Kitten stated again that he was determined to see this thing through, 'this' being a demonstration that Deem was the wrong candidate. He also wanted to be fair to everyone. The facts seemed to be lining up against Deem, to be blunt. Did Deem believe the Apostles' Creed and the 66 books of the Bible? Yes. What about the five Solas? Yes.  Was he an Arminian or a Calvinist? Neither - he was an Epper. It's a both-and and a neither.  Did he pray the Lord's prayer? Did he believe in church discipline? Yes he did. Kitten got on him about being single, but in the end Kitten was satisfied. There was more here than he had expected. \par
\par
You work out? Doesn't look like it. Tell you what.  I'll get you set up with Mike - he used to train DI's on how to fight hand-to-hand, and then he was at Quantico and somewhere else, teaching.  He will be your personal trainer.  You need to muscle up in this town.  It's bearing, son.  You understand?  If you stick around, he will get you in the best shape of your life. \par
\par
His dad and I go back to Okinawa.  He was one of my boys there - he showed up as a green as they come, a real boot, half trained like they were sending them.  He was a good man.  But he was sent back after only a couple of weeks on medical and never returned.  He looked me up after the war and got me a job that lasted two whole years as a night watchman at his office.  He had to let me go for fighting and drinking on the job.  That was before Korea.  Then, when Korea was over, the same thing and the same result.  He was a good man, taking care of me like that.  I saved his life and then he saved mine.  He talked me into going back into the Corps for Korea.  Nothing else worked for me, ever, except the Marines.  We buried Bob a few years back. Lung cancer from all those coffin nails they used to pass out to us for free.  I would have been a pall bearer but I can't carry much of anything anymore.  We used to go out drinking, Bob and me, and start bar fights.  Those were the days.  He came to Nicholls a few years back and I think we were drunk for a week straight until the Missus threw him out of the house.  He's buried in Arlington, right proper.  I visited his grave. Semper Fi. You're pretty skinny for a Marine.\par
\par
I never was a Marine.\par
\par
What the f are you doing in my house then?\par
\par
I am the pastoral candidate.\par
\par
Oh yeah, Sorry. Sorry about all that. And the Missus taught me to say F instead of the whole word, because it is polite and all that.  I've cleaned up my mouth a lot. Yes, sir. I guess I can tell you that because you are a pastor.\par
\par
I am a candidate, not yet the pastor.\par
\par
That's right.  And I don't like you.  I remember now.  We want a real leader, not some wimp candidate.  You are the wimp candidate.  I remember. Failure at everything you do, and all that.\par
\par
I've succeeded at a lot.  And God counts faithfulness, not success.  Or do you think every Marine who died in combat is a loser?\par
\par
Oh, no.  I would never talk that way. No, sir.\par
\par
I've overcome some obstacles.  I understand what it means to fail. I think that makes me a more compassionate person.  \par
\par
Kitten tells him if he goes to the Ranch to stay out of Snake Woods. \lang9 Kitten tells of 1947 attempt on Snake Woods with a flamethrower and Marine vets - they withdrew. They would have needed more flame throwers - they only had one, and they could only have it for a short time.  Many painful, nasty, later infected bug bites and the snakes kept coming. They had to walk on bones, some human, when they got into the woods - the flames attracted the bugs and the snakes.   There was the rotting smell of burnt and decaying flesh - it reminded Kitten of Okinawa - they came to the edge of a cliff and looked down into a ravine that seemed to be full of snakes and those flies over it. There was no way down from where they were and they had to flame a path out of there because otherwise they would have been surrounded by snakes.  No one got bit by a snake, but no one wanted to go back, either. And several got sick from the bug bites. There was also a crazy man who tried to interfere with them - it seemed like he was possessed, or something: warning them to stay out.  They were afraid he would get hurt. He was there when they came and after they left. No idea who he was. The flies seemed to breed and hover over the shallow, slimy waters just east of Snake Woods. There were biiting gnats as well as horseflies. But both were very aggressive. \lang1033\par
\par
\par
Conversation with Dennis Opp on Thursday morning.  Thursday afternoon Deem wandered the town. Yes, the police had been notified and he would not be picked up for loitering. Whiggins sort of hangs around just out of the reach of normal speech but close enough that Deem was able to call or he could come if necessary. Exhausted, he took the wrong turn and finds himself lost on a country road.  He fell asleep and is arrested by a Deputy.  He is freed by Kitten and Aaron.  He then received a phone call from the bishop, who seemed to know all his movements.  The other two candidates are no longer interested.  Deem was now the sole candidate.  The bishop was going to inform the Session next, but Deem was asked to keep it quiet.  He did.  \par
\par
Thursday afternoon Deem was told to wander around and meet people, some of whom would seek him out.  \par
\par
\lang9 Deem met a.k.a. "Baptist Bob" Stockwood, who moved to Nicholls from the Ranch to start a Baptist church that never happened. because Pastor Smit had been very effective at collecting all the Protestants into the Epper church, but now there might be a chance.  To support himself, he started a car wash, was successful, and held classes for people. It is derisively referred to as "Brother Bob's Baptist Seminary and Car Wash."  He attended church elsewhere.  Deem, to his own surprise, overcame suspicions and befriended him (to some criticism from clannish Eppers), although Bob never joined the Eppers. Just a Christian brother, a friend outside the congregation, and Deem appreciated that.  Neither is out to convert the other.  Friendship without agenda. \cf1\lang1033 Is this worth being here? Why?  If I am asking, does that tell me the answer?  Amusing, but worth while?? Yes: illustrates that non-Epper Christians exist in Nicholls and are fellow travellers with Deem and company. Imparts some realism.  Also explains, maybe, to some extent, why there are no other Protestant churches in Nicholls - Pastor Smit's legacy is still strong.\cf0   \cf3 Spelling of Smit/Schmidt/ etc is inconsistent. Choose one.  \cf0 Baptist Bob was also considering a tempting offer from Johnson Bank to allow "professional management" to run the car wash: Bob would get the profits, and, of course, pay a fee for management and all maintenance costs.  After thinking it over and talking it over with his own pastor, he had just decided to decline, but he thought there may be repercussions in the community.  There were no outright threats, just a feeling that declining the offer was not something that would please some powerful people. \par
\par
Whiggins, cleaned up, sort of hovered in the background not too far from Deem. Crazy Harry saw his prey, but Whiggins stood between him and Deem. Crazy Harry backed off with palms out and up, empty, and walked off. \par
\par
\lang9 Deem encounters someone who prompts Deem to ask why it seems you view every relationship as a boxing match - human relationships are more than a \tab fight or competition - that's the way life is, he is told. Deem is sorry for him.  Man does not know how to handle this perceived attack.\f1\par
\f0\lang1033\par
\cf1 We also encounter Mildred Spass, the eternal and seemingly eternally ancient Postmaster of Nicholls, who is determined that no piece of mail should go out the same day it comes into the PO and that any ambiguous or unclear address, of which most are, needs to be investigated before the mail is delivered.  People frequently must come into the PO and show identification and proof of residency at an address to receive mail. She is especially adept at keeping packages from being delivered.  Typically a package will require 3 forms of ID and proof of residency before she will reluctantly hand it over.  You get a card saying We have mail we think may be yours. Please come in. And she moves slowly.  There is a waiting room full of people with numbers, and if you are not served one day, you must come back the next, as her office hours are over promptly at 4 PM.  There is no UPS or Fedex in town, as those are not locally owned and are chains, both of which are strikes against Nicholls.  Some people maintain post office boxes out of town. Both Adrian and Archie have more Nicholls related boxes than are in those towns. \par
\cf0\par
\ul\b Chapter 4 Isaiah and the Fire\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 Friday morning: greenhouse climb and the fire, Friday afternoon Isaiah and Jeremiah went to the remnants of Snake Woods; Isaiah found the coins, went to town, paid for a banana split with 1865 gold coins, evaded pursuit and returned home.\par
\par
In the ice cream parlor (it's Butler's, but Isaiah calls it an ice cream parlor) Isaiah overheard people talking about the new pastor not worth spit - hopes they get someone better.  They start talking about things that Isaiah does not understand but he understands enough that he does not like the conversation or the tone. \par
\par
Saturday morning his parents, two elders and the sherriff meet with Isaiah.  \par
The sherriff asks for his remaining coins as part of the investigation into the fire, and they might be stolen.  If asked, Eppers give, so they hand over the coins without objection. Isaiah's coins were taken to Harrisonville "for testing and valuation" and were not seen again. \par
\par
Papa, you're not a pastor. No, son, I'm not.  Are you an elder? No. How come?  It's not what God wants me to do right now. Maybe someday?  I can't predict the future. So it's like what you said, not in the foreseeable future, but after that, who knows? Yes. These guys were saying bad things about the new pastor in town.  What new pastor? I hadn't heard. The church in town is getting a new pastor.  Is he going to be our pastor, too? I heard we don't have one.  That's right.  We've been waiting on God for one. If he is the pastor in town, is he going to be our pastor?  Well, no.  Sometimes people in churches don't get along the way they should.  I think they should. I will pray. You do that, Isaiah.  I don't see any hope of the Ranch and the Eppers ever getting back together.  You mean that would take a miracle?  Yes, it would.  And we seem to be running short on them right now.  I will pray. You do that, Isaiah, he said, laughing and tousling Isaiah's hair.  You do that.   \par
\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 5 Deem Comes to the Ranch\par
\par
\cf1\ulnone\b0 Kikker Industries (KI)  is 90% underground, with the residential 10% in earth-sheltered homes facing away from the highway, discretely hidden.  Deem signs a non-disclosure agreement and learns there is a nuclear power plant down there with 95% energy recaptiure that is harnessed to make the ceramics; extra electricity is bartered to other settlements on the Ranch, transmitted via tunnels. He is not allowed to see it, as most people are not, and is not even allowed to know exactly where it is.   There is a testing lab in Grandview that is certified to test products that is open to inspection, but there are no tours of the facility and visitors, including customers, are unwelcome.  It is, in a word, opaque. So are the finances, as it is wholly owned by the privately held Profim Properties and they do not reveal their finances to anyone, a position they have successfully held for 30 years. They do however contribute generously to Nicholls City and County, who leave them alone. Their eight settlements of approximately 100 dedicated workers each manages to create an income upwards of ten billion dollars a year in 2016. The Council of Twelve accepts a tithe but does not divulge what that is.  Of that tithe they also quietly support the Epper church in Nicholls, as well as statewide and national candidates for office who agree to leave them alone. \par
\par
Nuclear power has made tunneling extraordinarily cheap.  The north end of the Ranch is now underlaid by storage tunnels, water tunnels, electrical transmission tunnels, transportation tunnels, as well as earth-sheltered offices and homes. There is no heat signature from any of it even at ground level - partly out of the Epper habit of concealment and partly because there is an awareness that someone out there wants to know all about what they are doing, with nefarious intent.  Also, they have no permits for any of it. They have stayed away from tunneling near the faulty limestone in the area of Snake Woods.  The few underground streams encountered have been harvested for drinking water and then used, cleansed and then flushed back into the channel.  That's true in the far north, but other settlements have not accepted the tunneling technology either entirely or in part, or are slowly adapting.  Hair Bair built a large greenhouse and at the time of the story was evaluating it versus an underground one. Motorbuggies and the rough trails were not something people wanted to give up. They were uncomfortable with the idea of a ten minute trip from a settlement near Adrian (Kfaar Keshet Beunan)  to Kikker HQ. \par
\par
KI is composed of eight different specialized, mostly independent  settlements that together manufacture high quality, precision medical ceramics and specialized ceramics for industrial applications that are sold worldwide. Each buys and sells on its own but they are each other's primary customers and suppliers. Each settlement, Epper fashion, provides for their own sustenance, including basic food, shelter and clothing beyond that. \par
\par
KI dominated the northern portion of the Ranch.  Elsewhere they ran cattle.  They were utterly indifferent as to what anyone outside the Ranch thought of them as much as possible.  \par
\par
Whiggins declines to go to the Ranch, without explanation.\par
\par
At the north entrance to Hair Bair Elder Yarrock meets Deem - he explains that he cannot stay more than a few minutes. He is even shorter and thinner than Deem, in his eighties, like a leaf in fall, shriveled and ready to break, he says. His time on earth is short and he looks forward to going home. He is sunburned brown, bald, wrinkled, shriveled - although only in his seventies, he looks more like mid-nineties.  He coughs and uses a cane, and is hunched over. His amaneuensis assists him physically.  He arrives in an electric golf cart driven by the same.  It was a golf cart, but the wheels have been replaced with larger ones and it is somewhat higher off the ground. Deem is invited to climb up and talk to him for a few minutes.  Yarrock sketches out the settlements for Deem, and then tells him he must go, without asking Deem anything. \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx900\tx2070\cf2\f1\lang9 some settlements inside the Ranch are separate mostly self-sufficient communities, but some things are more efficiently done as a whole.  A sizeable percentage of Nicholls is also now people affiliated with the Ranch. They are attracted to the large older houses, among other things. \par
\tab 200 adults => 90 couples with 6 kids avg =200+90*6=740 people.  The 200 headcount \tab is for those 16+\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx900\tx2070 Ha'ir Bira (administrative specialty)   Greenhouses, trailers, hangers, middle and high school (each town does its own elementary school and church), pharmacy, medical. major church service with outside attendees\par
Kfaar Mayam (water tower, water system, sewage and storm drainage)  church with Ha'ir Bira\par
Kfaar Kinor - emphasis on fine arts, esp. music.  Sunday service with Ha'ir Bira but closed Bible studies and prayer meetings\par
Kfaar Kesef  - despite the name, mainly dairy.  They have the aurochs.  Home church, closed to regular outside attenders but guests are welcome if known to someone - no "tourists"\par
Kfaar Even (city of stone: quarry operations, streets, gravel, stone cutting)  Home church, closed to regular outside attenders but guests are welcome if known to someone - no "tourists"\par
\par
Charitopolis  small scale machinery - church with Ha'ir Bira\par
Gnadedorf  linen - Home church, closed to regular outside attenders but guests are welcome if known to someone - no "tourists. The women avoid contact with outsiders if at all possible.  This is the church Deem visits and the women are upstairs and he only meets the men, "who will tell the women about it later, in accordance with Paul's instructions to the Corinthians - we've had problems with them in the past, talking and disrupting the service, you know, and also the whole thing of distraction, so they listen to the sermon upstairs. The boys stay up there, too, until they are eight years of age, when they join the men downstairs." They expect Deem's wife to pastor the womenfolk and are shocked at finding he is single. Something unholy about a single pastor.  Peter and the apostles took wives - who does he think he is? He is asked to leave.\par
Hillside   theology  Sunday service with Ha'ir Bira but closed Bible studies and prayer meetings\par
there are some others. \par

\pard\ltrpar\li720 Empty - this was a town that up and resettled.  The last one was interested in pottery and they went to Georgia for the clay.  Now used as housing for people at Kikker Industries - not an organized community but dependent on Ha'ir Bira for organizational matters; shuttle bus to Kikker Industries and into Nicholls for shopping.\par

\pard\ltrpar\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\b\f0\lang1033 Ir Shalom\par
\b0 All of the original inhabitants of Ir Shalom had been arrested and deported by their former government and their land siezed; they were kicked out of wherever it was "Now incidental-there is no return" - they had a sense of exile but they have sublimated it to exile from heaven, sojourners on earth, a sense that things here are temporary that others perhaps do not share. They were located in the northeast part of the Ranch and were absorbed into the Kikker Industries complex of settlements - residences cut into a quarry wall, the quarry having a pond at the bottom, weir and drainage channel away, tunnels.  Ir Shalom is also closed to all visitors and what they do and how many are there is not discussed.  It was neither confirmed nor denied that the reactor was located here. Not even the Co12 visited.  And they kept to themselves. \par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx900\tx2070\f1\lang9\par

\pard\ltrpar\cf1\f0\lang1033\tab Rock Valley\par
\tab Elder Yarrock's last comment was that he was leaving out many important things, but others would fill Deem in. \par
\par
Not sure the timing for Ellen becoming a jongedamme is right. How does that timing tie in with Deem? Is his interest in her an impetus?  Lois is the jongedamme at the beginning here. \par
\par
Often the elders of a settlement would sit at the main gate, as in Biblical times, and greet strangers or settle disputes.  These were generally those who had gotten too old to work a full day, or at all, and, although often they were wise, sometimes they were not.  So you might have some older fellows sitting there who were not technically elders in the sense of recognized leaders of the community. It was not always easy to tell. At this time at the Ranch there was the Council of Twelve, but some settlements had recognized elders who were only recognized in their own settlement, although some might have influence elsewhere. As much as possible everyone tried to live at peace with each other, and disputes were settled inside the settlement, or between settlements.  The typical response from the Council, should a dispute be kicked up to their level, was to tell the disputants to settle it themselves. \par
\par
Deem was a curiosity, as they had gone so long without hierarchial leadership,and here he was, with the Co12 saying his leadership was valid.  Some puzzlement ensued as to what that meant and how they could work with him.  No one was hostile.  Questions were raised from some who had gone through a CDP action resulting in their own exile, but they had worked through those issues without bitterness.  \par
\par
\par
\cf0 "We didn't realize you were coming.  We've been trying to set up a meeting with you and the entire Council of Twelve, but it has not worked.  I found out only yesterday that you were coming, but these things happen.  Our elders are scattered all over the Ranch.  Several are here in Hair Bair, and they will meet you.  I'm not sure we can do a formal meet--and-greet."\par
\par
"That's fine," Deem said, thinking of his two "formal" meetings with the Nicholls elders.\par
\par
"I'm glad you are so relaxed about it."  Deem smiled and said nothing.\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
\ul\b\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\ulnone\b0  Sandy Sands: \cf3\i  \cf2 Why is Sandy here? Is Kitten here, too? No. That would be added complexity.  I don't think Kitten is all that interested.  Aaron, however, should be here.  Sandy has been handling communications between the Ranch and the church in town, a role he reluctantly took.  He'd been on the Council of 12 and departed during Peter Muis' time.  \i0\par
\cf0  Gary Sands: \cf3\i receptive Ranch      \cf2 needed: this is Deem's introduction to the Ranch, he sees Ellen for the first time, but it should be combined with Gary Sands.  Gary is Sandy's son.  He grew up on the Ranch and stayed when his parents left. \i0\par

\pard\ltrpar\cf0\par
\cf2\f1\lang9 Deem on seeiing Ellen: Love at first sight does not happen - I think I am changing my mind on that.\cf0\f0\lang1033\par
 \par
scene five: Aaron and Dennis show up. \par
scene six: Aaron and Kitten have a short sharp discussion about Deem. In the end, firiend, it is grace, not merit, that determines what we do in the kingdom of God., Aaron continues, telling them they would be a lot better off finding reasons to allow Deem to do what God called him to do instead of reasons to stop him.  Aaron has a look on his face that indicates he just discovered he is backing Deem 100%. The Church is not the Marine Corps.  That should not be a radical concept but seems to be. \par
\par
from then through Friday early morning, when they were mostly together., Kitten came to realize there was more here than he had thought.  He came to realize there was real determination underneath, that here was treasure in this earthen vessel, and he stayed in Deem's corner after having despised him. We all do what we do by grace, not merit, outside of the Corps.  Nicholls and the world needed to hear that message. \par
\par
Thursday Kitten learned from the clerk of Session that of the other two candidates, one decided, under the bishop's guidance, that he did not fit Nicholls. The other accepted a position elsewhere. Without a pastor the church will fold, Kitten thought, and so he had to find some way to accept Deem.   \par
\par
Deem suggested there are those who trust in the USMC or in being an Epper, above trusting in Christ. Trusting in anything except Christ is trusting in a falsehood. He also wonders if the church is in the shape it is in because they seem to have such enormously high standards - as in being a USMC vet - for entrance.  The church is not the VFW hall.  While there must be standards for membership, anyone - anyone - should be welcome, welcomed, and encouraged to join.  And membership does not mean perfection.  Kitten says it is more the particular strain of Nicholls culture here - it seems to have fossilized.  He does not realize he himself is a prime example. Or maybe he does.  But those who return to Nicholls and embrace Marine culture are few - they are a little over the top and peculiar. \par
\par
Kitten was the most opposed to Deem but winds up backing him even when he would otherwise balk. \par
\par
The Bank of Nicholls is the one holding the note on the big Epper church in town. The local bankers regret the order to close it, but it came "from out of town." Kitten sometimes wonders if someone out there has something against Nicholls. Few people have loans or mortgages and most if not all transactions in Nicholls are cash. No one really trusts the bank any more. \par
\par
Kitten asked Deem that night what he did in fighting the fire, as they had been split up.\par
\par
Nicholls resident Jim Smithston, never in the Marines and not native, lived mostly apart from the Marine community. He was a member in the Nicholls Epper church, one of the few remaining, but not an elder, either. In the church he was also somewhat isolated and concerned about the state of the church. Deem ate lunch with Kitten and him at Kikker Industries cafeteria (free to workers and guests, in the Epper tradition). He was a Jeremiah type who has been warning people at the church, in particular the elders, about the state of the church.  He was opposed to Hartmann but has gotten no thanks for being proven right, labeled a trouble maker.  He stood in opposition with a brass determination and an actual burden from the Lord.  It is odd that he prayed with "those women" for the church.  He worked as a mathematical modeler at Kikker Industries: the math models were used to build both molds and actual ceramic objects, and staged objects. These were then turned over to structural engineers who analyzed the stresses before the items were made. Tall and thin, he played basketball with some Mexicans in town and wais fluent in Spanish as far as playing basketball is concerned.\ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 Kitten conceded Deem was remarkably grateful, persevering, unassuming, quiet and unassertive unless he has to be assertive. For Kitten, Deem Futz wins acceptance as pastor.He actually would be a model Marine, something the elders sense but cannot articulate. Better yet, a model Christian.   He "has arrived", it is just no one seems to realize it. most of all him, in the inner man.  The discrepency between what Deem really was and what he appears to be was notable. He told Deem he believed in him now and he would not give up on him, even if he gave up on himself. Looking at Deem's arms, he asked,"Do you work out?" Deem found himself working out, and even taking self-defense at Main Street Mixed Martial Arts, where "The Beast" Mueller (no relationship to the Muellers of Ranch frame), former officer in charge of martial arts first at Parris Island and then at Quantico, finally at the Infantry School, ran his shop. "The Beast" took it upon himself to train Deem from nowhere to some semblance of his idea of a warrior in physique.  He is a devout Catholic and active in his parish outside of Nicholls.  Hearing of trouble, he and his assistant trainers decided to provide Deem with 24 hour protection.  \par
\par
\par
\lang9 Rock Valley - settlement known for overconfidence, immediately south of Nicholls city, regarded as worldly compromised.  They are on Old 71, mainly non-Eppers who took to some aspects of Epper lifestyle.  They are more involved in Nicholls than most of the Ranch would care to be, for example, having their kids in Nicholls schools. Their settlement is a stone ring with windows on the inside; the ring doubles as a cattle pen.  People refer to it as Isengard in humor.     They have a full-time administrator they call the executive, a lay pastor and they vote on everything, without elders, sort of doing everything group consensus without any other leadership.  It's a pure democracy.   People own their own furniture, eat separately most of the time but they have three communal meals (First Day, Fourth Day, and Six Day dinners). More of a moshav than a kibbutz. They own cattle collectively and profits are distributed by consensus, depending on perceived hard, good work.    They also have a quarry.  They were founded in the early 1990s and the founders are still active.  They've had some turnover, mainly having to ask people to leave who weren't up to the hard work that was expected.  They grow 75% of their own food and make 75% of their own belongings on family plots, which they feel is right for them.  No TVs, no Greek, no Dutch.  They do have laptops and cell phones. They even have a server and their own web page.  They write some software for Kikker Industries.   Deem tours it and no one there really knows what an Epper pastor is or what he is supposed to do - they invited him because they are curious.  Deem hits it off when he shows he can handle cattle. \par
\par
You need to be aware that we have people here from Russian and Dutch backgrounds.  And not ot everyone at the Ranch is an Epper. That's something you will have to get used to. Eppers eat and drink but in moderation - righteousness, mercy and faith in excess would be preferable, if they could be.  Eppers in general are neither ascetics or sumptuous, living well but modestly.  The ascetics who came to the Ranch were not typical Eppers, but Eppers also allowed Nazarites. Tuesday and Friday were fast days among Dutch Eppers, but the Russians instead had fast weeks  in addition to fasting every Saturday, unless it was Christmas.  Lent and Advent were both seasons of fasting among the Russians, but only Lent among the Dutch. \lang1033\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 6 First Sunday\par
\par
\ulnone\b0  Whiggins stepped into the role of Deem's chaffeur, amanuensis and bodyguard.  He also took care of his clothes, tried to serve him food (when allowed by Mrs. Pfingster), screened phone calls, and anything else he could think of. Kitten thought it was a llittle creepy.\par
\par
Whiggins tried to get Deem's suit back from the dry cleaners twice Thursday, and on Friday they told him to come back Saturday.  He did at 9 AM but it wasn't there, neither was it there at 7 PM when they closed. "Don't ask me," said the clerk,"everything here is now run out of Harrisonville. We got bought out and they make the decisions up there.  I don't know where your suit is at." \par
\par
Whiggins called Dennis Opp's recommended tailor, discovered it was a brand headquartered somewhere, got \cf2\f1\lang9 operator not available - please leave your name and number and we will call you back.\cf0\f0\lang1033 and finally found a place that was open on Sunday morning, but Deem would have to be fitted there. So Whiggins drove him up.  They returned five minutes before Sunday School was to start. \par
\par
Deem learned he had missed the briefing, where Pastor Hartmann checked to see that everything was ready and there was a brief prayer.  There was no time to get him up to speed, only into his suit.  He exited the restroom to find the room full and a shout of "Pastor on Deck!".  He looked around and realized they were talking about him. \par
\par
\par
\par
No one told Deem he was supposed to teach the Sunday school class until he was in the room, and there was silence, and people looked at him with an expectant look and someone coughed politely.  Among other things, Deem again dunked the end of his tie in his coffee as he was teaching the class.  They said nothing.  \par
\par
\par
Aaron, the bishop and his wife, and two officials from the presbytery were in the last row. The church was crowded and overflowing because people were curious about the pastoral candidate and wanted to check him out.  The week before there had been around twenty people, mostly elders and their wives.  \par
\par
Worship was awful, badly led by a grim-faced elderly lady on the piano and the lady who thought she was in charge of everything soloed badly.  They did three military-oriented hymns.  Elder Sandy Sands made announcements, led a prayer, welcomed the distinguished guests, including the bishop and two presbyters, and introduced Deem at the end of the offeratory without warning.  \par
\par
Deem unfolded his sermon notes and discovered the sermon that he thought was complete was just a mass of scribbles.  But instead of delivering a very poor sermon, he preached a good off-the-cuff one.  \par
\par
Deem managed to put his foot in his mouth by thinking the two officials, one a man and one a woman, are married, as he is not used to women serving at that level.  She brushed it off but it came across as hideously awkward.  He also said the wrong thing to the bishop's wife, whom he had never met before.  This was in front of many witnesses. \par
\par
\cf1 After the service, Chips commented loudly on Deem's mistakes.  Kitten cut him off, saying something like you keep problems inside Nicholls inside Nicholls. Chips makes a comment about "the Hartmann elders" being reduced in number - Kitten shakes his head - Chips quotes Kitten to himself from an earlier discussion in which Kitten had called the others "\lang9 Smit elders", softer and compromising\lang1033 ". Chips wants someone like Hartmann, not this weeping Willy. Nathan Bread, Sandy and Dennis go over and quiet Chips down.  Aaron's self-comment here is that \lang9 this division is well-known to the presbytery, which currently thinks they need a pastor onsite to solve the problems internal to the church, like the conflicting letters sent by the session as a whole and what turned out to be part of the session representing themselves as the whole session, unbeknownst to the others.  That had been Chips and Kitten at work. \lang1033 Aaron noted that Kitten has gone over to Deem's side, meaning a vote would be 4-1 for Deem to stay. But Chips and Kitten walked a block off and had a long conversation. The other three elders discouraged the view of Hartmann elders versus Smit elders. \cf0\par
\cf1\lang9\tab\par
\lang1033\par
\par
\cf2\f1\lang9\par
 \cf0\f0\lang1033\par
\ul\b Chapter 7 Tony\par
\ulnone\b0\par
viewpoint of Elder Sandy Sands \cf1 -  is this still valid?\par
\par
some of this needs to be moved\cf0\par
\par
With concern Sandy looked at their only candidate from Saturday morning coffee then after church and Monday morning's meeting.  Really? He is trying to fit together what he considers a bishop's default usual good judgement with what he sees before him. He wants to be loyal to the bishop, to the Epper church, to God, to himself, and it is not fitting. He is working hard to see any good in Deem. In his eyes Deem does nothing to encourage him.  Deem really does not care about what anyone thinks of him.  That, finally, gets through and Sandy sees it.  But he is a no vote on Monday morning.    \par
\par
\cf1 I'm thinking of ending his part after his lunch with his wife. \cf0 The meeting Monday can be seen in restrospect.  Deem's position is extremely insecure but he acts anyway.  It seems like Sandy is 'done' on Sunday and someone else should take up the tale.  \par
\par
Deem is thinking about how David treated Mephibosheth and asks God if there is anyone he can show kindness to today.\par
\par
In line at the grocery store, Deem sees a man in front of him attempt to apply for a job. He is rejected out of hand because he lives in the trailer court.  Deem follows him and tells him he needs to move and he, Deem, will find him housing.  Deem shows up at Pfingsters', who have plenty of room and there is the ancient 'hospitality not hostility' in Epper culture.  Kitten takes them in.  This shocks the church.  \ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
\cf2\f1\lang9\par
"Personal, private piety is not enough for true holiness - it is part, but not all; corporate righteousness is the desire of God for man, that we have a just society. Our settlements have succeeded where many others failed because we stress both a personal and a corporate holiness."    Deem in his second sermon.\par
\cf0\f0\lang1033\par
\par
At the end of the second sermon Deem wept over the state of the church openly and unashamedly, in front of this tough Marine crowd.  People are spiritually dead, deflected, chasing other things, uninterested in Christ, without passion for what He is passionate about: they should be weeping, crying out for their sins instead of sitting there judging him as a weaking.  Are they Christians or Pharisees? He says calamities are coming on Nicholls, on the Ranch, on the whole area.  It is wholly, absolutely inappropriate for anyone to seem to have a nervous breakdown here, let alone the pastor during a sermon.  This is absolutely terrible.  But some listen and nod and cry. But many, including all the elders, are angry.  The best he gets from them is that he should have shown some tact if he was going to say such things and wait until he knew them and he had won their respect, have known the town better, and certainly not show himself to be a crybaby. A gentle loving rebuke would have gone farther from someone they respected. But not this.\par
\par
They sat down with Deem and went over the 14 Marine leadership traits, which they started off thinking he sorely lacks.  They had to admit at the end of the discussion he has them, just not in the way they are used to seeing them.  "Sometimes we need to open our eyes," Deem says,"and certainly I am not perfect in any of them. Are you?" Silence.\par
\par
The town is woken by an early morning fire at the Pohle home.  The fire completely consumes the house and is later determined to be arson. The bodies of Mrs. Pohle, her daughter and son Sy are found in the ashes.  There are indications they had been bound and tortured. The mayor tells the arson investigator not to pursue the case. The detective had said she had been an employee of the Nicholls Bank until she had been fired three weeks ago,  and she was going to meet him to tell him something important. "I'm sure it was nothing," the mayor says. Sandy looks at the detective and the arson investigator, who both have blank looks.  "She's Catholic," the mayor says,"So you Eppers won't be doing the funeral. Do you need anything else, Sandy? I think we are done here."\par
\par
In response to Deem's sermon townspeople decide to take over the trailer court, Marine style. On Tuesday morning before dawn armed Marine vets in full gear took the trailer court without firing a shot.  They find women being trafficked, stolen cars,  a chop shop, a large quantity of drugs, a meth lab, and over fifty men and women with outstanding arrest warrants, including several prison escapees.   \par
\par
No one told Deem.  But people thought it was the best thing that had happened in a long time As it seemed to be Deem's idea, or at least he got the credit (or blame) and it was a success, it established Deem as a leader in the communiity.\par
\par
\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 8 Return to Snake Woods\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\ulnone\b0  Ellen Bread: \cf3\i now jongdamme\cf0  \cf2  \cf0\par
\i0  Seth Kuyper: \cf3\i enemy down  \cf2\i0  \i   Ellen being a jongedamme is here incidental, only a setup for later action.  Isaiah is trailed in the open land by Crazy Harry.  He loses him by going into Snake Woods and crosses the unstable perimeter of the sinkhole, but Harry, less nimble and heavier, slides in.  \cf0\par
\i0\par
\cf2 whatever happened to the gifts of the Spirit discussion? I don't see that in parts 2 or 3, and is only a side issue in part 1.  The Gifts are present and in use at the Ranch in a limited way: many have become wary of having seen or heard of misuse in the past, including some who never really accepted them but passively tolerated them.  There is an underlying prayer movement that rarely gets alluded to but is there.  \cf0\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 Gary filled Deem in on the situation regarding the elders. The Council of Twelve were ten, including  Cassell, Yaddock, Meyer , Hook, and Berg (now elderly and mainly confined to his house).  This is not John Cassell but another, Paul Cassell. There are 10, with Sands having left and Paul de le Grande being deceased, but they do not feel they can select someone to fill the two positions. Deacons include Pol, Voort, Kalua,  Smirnoff and Wu.  The Council of Twelve is unwilling to promote anyone or, for that matter, allow any deacon to resign.  Kalua is presently not serving as a deacon. Marshall is serving as one but is not called a deacon, because that would require a formal act, which they are reluctant to do. \par
\par
They explained to Deem that: in 2016 The Council of 12 resolves problems that weren't be solved inside a settlement, or between settlements, and provides overall guidance.  They function more as a Supreme Court, but an admiinistrator is the Executive. They use Paul L's 'self-organizing principle' : only impose organization when it doesn't happen naturally, or happens unhealthily.  So they may encourage healthy things and prune, but they leave the planting and watering to others.   They use negotiation and persuasion, may require restitution, and there is the threat of exile.  No jail, no trial by jury, no laws on the books.  Each settlement has its own code, which is the Basic Ten, and deals with violations as they see fit.  On the other hand, they and they alone are the owners of Profim Properties, LLC: this is their land.  They have never brought that up in a discussion but that fact has been prominent in the discussion with many, and tends to elicit cooperation. \par
\par
The Council of 12 performed the work of the session, administering sacraments, preaching, in charge of religious instruction and worship, for a number of the settlements.  That number using their helphad dwindled to two, as most had found a pastor on their own, even if not an Epper.  They have assumed all pastoral-diocesean duties, which they would prefer to have in the hands of a pastor, for whom they are waiting. It is not clear how or if the congregation(s) would vote on a pastor. Typically the elders get the mind of a settlement regarding a candidate and understand what they want, but here there are many settlements and they do not know everyone.  Given a candidate, perhaps each settlement should be polled.  Until Deem getting a pastor had been remote, as they had been occupied with other issues than this one.\par
\par
--\par
\par
Deem was shown Melanos, as he had an interest in cattle. Kitten and Gary were there. Deem watched the big bull for a minute. Then, to their shock and without a word Deem leaped over the fence and approached Melanos, arms out in front of him, making clicking noises.  Melanos trotted over and stood, then skipped in front of Deem and lowered his head, wagging his horns playfully. Deem scratched his neck as Melanos sniffed his feet. Kitten was about to say something, but Gary told him to not disturb Melanos - this was a very dangerous situation.  Other people passing by stopped and stared.  Deem gave the enormous bull a rub-down and they quickly became old friends.  The huge bull lay down and raised his foreleg like a dog, and Deem scratched his stomach as he lay on his side.  Deem then walked carelessly back to the fence.  Melanos followed like a happy puppy and Deem gave him a carrot. "I will be back," Deem said. Melanos bellowed as Deem left.  Melanos was back to lying on his side, waving his foot invitingly like he wanted his stomach scratched.\par
\par
"You must have cattle where you are from," Sandy said.  Kitten's eyes were as big as saucers. "Yes. And we handle them every day.  We do not isolate them like this. You should get him a big inflatable ball and let him push it around, and play fetch with it. And play with him."\par
\par
"You have got to be kidding me."\par
\par
"Get one.  Next time I am out here I will show you."\par
\par
"I don't think anyone else wants to get close to him.  I don't think anyone else wants to."\par
\par
"That's your loss - and his."\par
\par
"I never-" was all Kitten managed to say.  He had a new appreciation for Deem.\par
---\par
Deem met with one settlement, at their request.  Or, anyway, with all the men. The women were upstairs with the children, where they could hear but be quiet. It was a settlement of around 200, with twenty adult men and he also saw six teenage boys. They were curious about each other.  No one in the settlement spoke English, so the discussion was in Koine. Some settlements had mixed services. What did the pastor think of that? Deem learned that they meant not only were the women in the service, but often sitting side by side. No, he did not intend to stop that practice.  What would his role be as pastor? They intended to continue their own services. Was that a problem? No. Would he preach there? Sometimes.  He was not intending to replace but increase. The tension visibly relaxed.  He was treated to strong bitter coffee and falafel, which was new to him.  One man took him aside and said he was having some marriage difficulties. Deem said he was willing to sit down with him and his wife, and the man explained that he wanted Deem's advice, and he would tell that to his wife. Deem said maybe that approach was the problem.  The man frowned and said he would think about bringing his wife.  When was Deem going to return? He didn't know. He might be better off discussing this with someone from his settlement or going to the Council of Twelve. \par
\par
\par
Gary guarded the old gate on Friday night with others, against some would-be invaders.\par
\par
Wells started getting water, what with the rain. \par
\par
Strange that the Pohle house had been torched in town, and there was a son named Sy. Sy - Isaiah.  Odd coincidence? Deem wondered who they were, whether she was saved, what she was planning to tell the detective. Why had they been killed and their house torched?  Gary said people say don't mess with Johnson Bank: bad things happen. Deem:"Are you really accusing them of murder?" Gary had no better idea. He thought the Bank would destroy the Ranch and the city of Nicholls if the Bank thought they were in their way. Old man Johnson had an evil reputation. \par
\par
Deem saw Ellen Bread flit by, which unexpectedly distracted him as he met Gary Sands and an elder at the Ranch. Aaron was there. \par
\par
Gary thought it would take a while to get used to Deem. Deem said he identified with Paul, one thing in person and another in his letters.  He does what he does by the grace of God (he gives himself no credit).   \par
\par
Gary told Deem that from chaos to extreme poverty (it took years for the Epper settlements here to become profitable, and that did not happen all at once, and some were still not self-sufficient), poor soil, lack of water from wells, poor quality well water (contaminants, bacteria), cattle disease, sickness, trespassers growing marijuana, internal dissent, hassles with state and federal regulatory agencies, an unusual number of mechanical breakdowns, coyotes, internal  dissension, heavy criticism of the Council of 12 as overauthoritative or not providing direction and resolving conflict, cultural differences between Epper communities, the Ranch has always faced an array of problems. Now they seemed to be under attack by a hostile outside power. Was the business about the coins just a pretext? It seemed there has always been someone wanting to push them out of wherever they have lived: the Epper persecution complex, but this time maybe there was something to it.\par
\par
Pearl Mirren showed Deem the neglected berry garden that Paul had built and asks Deem if she can restore it.  Deem says he is not the judge - how was this settled before he got there?  Why is it neglected?  Pearl is frustrated and walks out. Later Deem discovers Pearl and another woman had been quarrelling over the berry garden for years, and the Co12 had told them to settle it several years previously, so Pearl is actually going around everyone else's back.  Deem follows up and asks her at that point why she had asked him, given that information.  She said she had forgotten, but then she confessed she had not forgotten - she was being tricky.  Deem said she was still under the obligation to resolve the issue.  Deem offers to go with her and see if things can be resolved.  Deem gets them to agree on a solution they are both happy with - not a net zero but a plus-plus.\par
\par
Deem heard there were miracles at the Ranch.  That was a long time ago, semi-mythical,  and Gary has not heard of any for years. The joy of the Lord is our strength - odd that Deem talks about our walk with Christ being defined by suffering and His seeming absence. But it fits. It is not defined by miracles, when and if they happen in Gary's world.  \par
\par
The Pflumms finally moved out of a trailer and into a stone house.  Katy agreed to take the boxes of Agatha's stories - there are many, as her younger sister is trying to keep up, and those stories are there too.  They are stacked near Katy's office in the trailer.  \par
\par
During church someone enters the Warren and steals boxes from Katy's office.  But all they get are Agatha's stories.  "I hope they enjoy them," Papa said. \par
\par
After the incident at South Gate Friday night and at Butler's Saturday, the Ranch increased security. South Gate was to remain closed.  Aurochsen were returned to their normal area: there were questions about the strength of the temporary gates and the risk to the valuable aurochsen. \par
\par
Gary Sands, Sandy's son, met Deem. He stayed at the Ranch when his parents left.Peter Muis is gone, but what about those who desired to follow him into error, who benefited from it and were so willing to blind themselves to it for the sake of what - having a human leader in place of Christ? Don't colleges do the same sort of thing? They make it easier not to think, instead of teaching you to think?  Gary gets a lot out of time alone on the prairie where he can think. \par
 \par
Deem counseled Gary on a problem Gary asked him about but draws more strength from it than Gary does. Gary asked Deem and heard how Deem was called in to a 6AM elders meeting to receive a tenuous acceptance, as well as his more solid acceptance at the Ranch as liaison.  The second Sunday he is to preach both in town and at the Ranch, at the main service in the HQ settlement.  He plans to visit other settlements on future Sundays, those that are interested.  Not all are.\par
\par
April Bread was upset.  The berry garden was given to her mother by Paul de le Grande to take care of when he got too old to take care of it. This year April gave birth to twins and had no time for the garden.  Why does Pearl get custody without even talking to her? Deem said he had no idea. Obviously Pearl has spoken to April. But why should April have it if she has not been able to care for it, what with other duties and the drought? Can April take care of it or should she really let go of it?  She let  go of it, but Pearl, who had arrived, had trouble concealing her look of triumph.  Deem told her to be sure April gets a lot of berries next spring, like the whole crop for a year.  Pearl looked stunned but nodded. \par
\par
Gary related what Mike Smirnov has told him to Deem. Gary put some pieces together later, which he shared with Deem.  An Ethiopian cannot change his skin or a leopard his spots - Gary told Deem that Mike felt helplessly trapped in his position.  Only God's grace could change him but he was still responsible for his situation.  Mike felt trapped and helpless. Gary asked Mike if he had faith to believe God will change him.  Mike did not know. \par
 \par
The unauthorized visitor on Monday afternoon was arrested.   Strangers had to be chased off the property, most of whom leave without contact. Gary visited three settlements without electricity and modern communications to warn them.  Trespassers had been increasing in number.  They also were coming back.  This was a quandry, as Eppers are open to everyone who wants to come, but historically the settlements have been small and exiling someone meant they really went away.  Eppers also avoid having much that can be stolen.  In the past Eppers have dealt with unwelcome, violent visitors in a way that they will not come back.    These guys are returning, for unknown reasons, avoid Ranch people but are hostile when approached.  The Ranch does not and will not have a No Trespassing policy, so what to do? And what to do with them? The Ranch has no jail for someone who say sets fire to the place, instead uses restitution, but these people are not interested in that.  They are looking for news of the treasure, and for Isaiah Poller.  \par
\par
An unlearned, uneducated low-level sometime-ranchhand who goes by the sobriquet of 'Weed' still struggles with the Weed despite many years on the Ranch.  Weed makes an appearance, mistaken for a stranger.  He's been known to wander.\par
From when to when?\tab I would think one incident Friday evening, then Monday afternoon.  He, too, is looking for Isaiah.  He tells someone he's been told to, but 'dunno' when asked who told him to look.  He is somewhat stoned out of his mind. \par
\par
The incident of the woman who kills an intruder would fit in here. \par
\par
Kitten made an appearance "need to dig in - they will just keep coming and coming. We will kill them all if we have to."  Gary wondered if the old man is losing it.  Kitten thought  should have fox holes.  He seems to be elsewhere, fading in and out of World War 2. They have no artillery and no air support.  No malaria any way. Not a single case. They've seen worse. \par
\par
Gary had been involved in the People of Praise as a teenager, including what he now thought of as going too far, but is now over that. Prophecy, he opined to Deem, is staid.  Knowing Christ is an antidote to depression, to impatience, to shame.  He was ashamed of how he was taken in.  There are those who seek your soul, that they be allowed to dominate you or they will kiill you or otherwise dispose of you.  Those who came in the rain, the People of Praise, various politicians he has heard about are like that.  \par
\par
"We are not to despise prophecy, but it is not necessarily the same thing as preaching, either.  It seems to be highly inspired preaching, but not on a level with Scripture- when it can, it should be tested by Scripture."\par
\par
"That cannot always be done. For example, Agabus and the famine."\par
\par
"Yes.  There is a role for prophecy outside of the pulpit ministry, it would seem. If you will, even an office, and that beyond that of the Old Testament prophets.  I would venture to say New Testament prophets are subject to Scripture and submit to the church authority - while not necessarily being identical to it."\par
\par
"I thought Eppers were cessationists."\par
\par
"That is a misunderstanding.  The official teaching on prophets is that the office has not excluded. However, no one today is included in the office, because we are at a loss as to how to recognize someone in the office. To be there, one would have to have a record of tested prophecies, but you cannot have a record without having prophesied.  And it seems only prophets prophesy. So until there is a consensus as to how to recognize a prophet, that office will be empty, and anyone claiming it is disruptive and subject to censure. And there are the prophets in the book of Revelations, which I cannot see as having gone through licensure with the Eppers or some such to assume their offices. Likewise God heals, for that matter, sovereignly. "\par
\par
"I see."\par
\par
Deem and Ellen met right after a Q & A with the Ranch, told from Ellen's perspective. He shifts from not much of a man, as she had been told, to the man she would like to marry.  He is not willing to compromise truth for the sake of reconciliation, or for that matter, to stay an Epper.  He trusts they are the same and they should not trust in whatever traditions of men have sprung up on the Ranch, because those are less than God's best, whatever they are.  Deem takes the same light grip on the town church. He wants neither if they Deem is installed as pastor of the church in town and liaison to the Ranch. Deem only manages to do this by explaining he will not compromise his core values, and neither should they, but non-core items are certainly negotiable.  He lays out the 5 Solas as non-negotiable, but the Epper statements of faith as negotiable, which is breath-taking given the CDP could get him.  'Chrisit is our life, not human formulations. Anything short of Him is not the truth. Our formulations are meant to describe that truth, not to be ends in themselves.  Likewise Marine Corps values only have value as they are derived from the Scriptures and ultimately from Christ, as there is no truth independent of Him.  \par
\par
\cf2 Not addressed so far are the problems with Ellen - 1) celebrity background; not a proper background person pastor's wife 2) public singing is the same scandal as 1, 3) her well known sexual past, not the virginal bride 3) educational level low, does not even know Koine, 4) is she really, technically available to Deem by the spirit of the law if by the letter, since there is no Book of Church Order restricting him in his dealings with the Ranch? He is certainly not siding with caution in this regard, say the Co12, and is violating the spirit of it, and the letter of it, if they had one.  He should already be married before accepting a call? Who can marry them, some ask. Deem's response is that they marry each other in the sight of witnesses and it's not a hierarchial involvement is crucial.  But the bishop steps in and says he is willing and would be honored to marry them, as a peace offering from the denomination to the Ranch, among other things. 5) She is not yet a member of the Ranch, or of Hair Bair, where she is staying.  Just an attendee, but one with a 'guest contract' - she puts in a certain number of hours of work per week in exchange for lodging, food, medical care and basic clothing, but nothing beyond bare necessities. \cf0\par
\par
Deem explained to Ellen that he would like to marry, and that he would like to court her, but he cannot court someone in his congregation in good conscience.  She was not interested in marrying anyone, ever.  Not that he would be a bad match. But no.  \par
\par
The town church embodied The Warrior Code, the Ranch, Shout to the Lord.  How can these be reconciled? God is both Judge-Warrior and Lover-Redeemer. The only reconciliation we can see is on the cross, meaning the Marine culture and the charismatic culture can only be reconciled, truly, through Christ.  This is in a conversation between Deem and someone at the Ranch.\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf1 not sure this is central:\cf0\par
why would we have enemies, Isaiah wonders.  What makes some people bad? Didn't God create all men good?  Why would He create someone, knowing they will go to hell? He is told God makes some like Pharoah to oppose Him to demonstrate His glory. Tough on them, isn't it? How can God be good and do this? <All this in eight year old speech>.  He is sent off to talk to Pastor Futz.  God is good. We start there.  We all had a choice, but [reprise Reformed theology with an eight year old.  It turns out the Eppers are 5 point Calvinists - or rather, that is one acceptable position.  Arminianism is another 'model' that is acceptable.  Some things God has left as a mystery].\par
\par
But Gary decided that Deem would be a good pastor.  He has not had one in a long time, but the gift seems to be there. \par
. \par
\cf1  move the following\cf0\par
\cf2\ul\b Chapter 6. Tony: \ulnone\b0\i unexpected direction\par
\cf0\par
\i0 Deem, living at Pfingsters, gets a note from the Post Office saying there is a piece of mail at the Post Office that they think may be his.  He is to bring photo-id and two other forms of identification and proof that he lives there, and he can pick it up.  Kitten says things have been like this for years; the postmaster refuses to deliver mail and you have to go pick it up.  Deem has no proof he lives there.  Kitten goes with him to vouch for him and gives him an earful about how many people pick up their mail and mail it from Archie or Audrain, because the Nicholls Postmaster is determined to let no mail through if she can possibly help it.  Deem finds a long line and has to take a number and a seat in the waiting area. Finally his name is called. He explains calmly that he wants his mail, that her job is to deliver mail, and he hopes that this will never happen again. With narrowed eyes she wants to know, or what.  And Deem says he supposes he will be at her mercy.  God will give mercy as she has given mercy to others - what does she want to get?  She gives Deem his mail.  The next day, for the first time in years, everyone gets all their mail, including what had been on hold pending investigation at the Post Office.  Word gets around that Deem had talked to her and had solved a decades-old problem: people had screamed at her at length and gotten nowhere, but Deem had done it with a few quiet words.  His stock around town went up considerably.\i\par
\par
\i0 Deem helps out Tony from the trailer court.   God has not forgotten the poor: if you want a day of visitation, hang around the poor. God comes to the poor and needy not the wealthy and satisfied.  \par
\par
Deem challenges Kitten to take in Tony and family in the ancient Epper tradition of hospitaility.  To his surprise he does, and Kitten uses him around the house for lifting things and Marigold takes Anna as sort of a \i jongedamme\i0 , as her skills are low, but much more gently, more like a tender daughter. This shocks many in town, who look down on the trailer court trash. Tony gets a job now that he has a "decent" address. Marigold had been a \i jongedamme\i0  in the old days.  Anna hears about the \i jongedamme\i0  tradition: Marigold explains that it is only for single women as \i jongedammen\i0  and Anna is married, and the mentor is always a mother with young children. And no, the mentors never have beaten their jongedammen - viscious rumor. Probably somewhere someone did so once but she has never heard of it. But Marigold can teach her how to run a household.  She needs the help. \par
\par
That second Sunday someone told Deem that they had not thrown him out of town for the sermon he had preached the previous Sunday, and it was doubtful he could do worse than that.  But it turned out he was angry about the injustice done to the trailer court. Knowing God is not just an inward-turned piety, whether turned inward to one's soul or to the congregation.  No, Jerusalem was sacked because of their idolatry, their oppression of the poor, their greed, corruption and rejection of God. Not for their lack of prayer life.  He chose Jeremiah 22:1-23 for his text and warned them thoroughly. Deem's second sermon was a reaming out of the congregation for the neglect of the trailer court and allowing it to fester.  They approved of a proper Epper sermon: but once again he burst  into unseemly and unmanly tears. Is this necessary and going to be a regular thing with this guy? He almost apologized, but they liked it, at least until he started crying. They were being stretched spiritually, so that was that.  \par
\par
Chips gathered some sympathetic to his position that they really needed another Hartmann, if they cannot get him back, and that Deem was not Hartmann.  "Thank God!" several people said and Chip realized his is a minority opinion, especially after Kitten pointed out it is 5-1 for Deem at the moment.  Chips did not back down, however. "You'll see," he said.\par
\par
Deem was alarmed: Nicholls as a town decided they should annex the trailer court by force if necessary.  Deem was not allowed to participate in its pacification. Without his knowledge they took over the trailer court before dawn, Marine style.  There was no shooting.  This was a turning point for Deem as he realized, and the congregation realized, they are backing him. \par
\par
Jim Smithston told Deem that he had heard through the grapevine that very powerful people were very unhappy about what happened at the trailer court. Bad things were going to happen. His Mexican friends would not say more than that.  \par
\par
Ellen conditionally allowed Deem him to court her, but with no promise at the end of it.  She emphasized it is a trial - she is not sure, after what she has gone through, that she wants to marry, or that she would be a good wife. April Bread is convinced she must somehow be related to Ellen, who absolutely does not want to talk about her past. \par
\i\par
\ul\b\i0\par
Chapter 7. Ellen Bread: \ulnone\b0\i now jongdamme \par
\par
\i0 Ellen Bread decided she needed to decide what her life is about .  She formally joined the Ranch (previously she had no commitment) and then the worship team, in a back-up role. She had been a successful Christian artist who crashed badly and is now putting things back together. Ellen accepts the position of \i jongedamme \i0 with the Pollers to get her head together. She also has no idea how to run a household, let alone cook. \ul\par
\par
\ulnone Ellen hears of Tony, and of the raid on the trailer court.\par
\par
Weed is smitten with Ellen but disgusts her. She struggles to 'love' him as a Christian while detesting everything about the old hippie.  She asks Deem if he would telli him to stop bothering her.  Deem does, and Weed leaves her alone.  He vanishes from Hair Bair, anyway.  The thought passes through her mind that there is something attractive about Deem. Maybe it is just because he is in authority, and he protected her this once. \par
\par
Ellen agrees to court Deem, and there is a transformation in how she sees Deem. Deem seems more secure in his office both at Ranch and in town. We see some of the previous discussions from her perspective. \par
\par
\cf1 write why someone would say this \cf0 The light you hoped for turns to bitter darkness if you do not give glory to the Lord (Jer 13:16). People move in one of the two directions.  Everyone wants light, but some get it because they give glory to God. Everyone else gets the valley of the shadow of death and gross darkness. The valley where the pit is remarked on as "what a dark place" and a "place of shadows" - partly the grey from the ash and the scorched walls.  Who makes this observation, and why is someone there in this chapter? Does that belong elsewhere? The false light is actually darkness, given in judgement by God. \par
\par
Despite all the difficulties and opposition in a time of trouble, it will be well with them.  What God has made them into will transcend any and all earthly troubles: the troubles will break on them like waves on rock.  Although the rock may be underwater, it will be there when the trouble is over. \par
\par
Deem handles a pastoral situation at the Ranch: a sterile man has his brother father his children for him, and ensuing complications.  How do these people feel? How do they live it out? How long ago was that? The man looks at these children and knows they are not his, has trouble with that. Is this worth being here? Why?  If I am asking, does that tell me the answer? This builds Deem's confidence in his role here. \par
\par
The old red south gate is rammed open and Poller's Warren is ransacked while everyone is at church.  They are looking for information about the gold.  They set the Warren on fire, whoever they are, and leave before they can be tracked down. What was not burned was scattered, ripped, turned upside down, etc.   They do not know if Katy's legal files were burned or taken.  But she is especially upset at their greenhouse, where all the plants were pulled out of their pots and thrown on the floor. Where was God when the Warren was pillaged and burned?  Sometimes he is more hidden than they would wish. but they seek Him even in this.\par
\par
 Scene of Pollers mourning their lost trailers and everything they owned on earth, with the broken down gates.  Katy is confounded: her children are safe, but it is like nighttime in the noontime, she is stunned, moving from grief to anger to feeling like God has abandoned her to exhaustion as they need to find living quarters for her family, including the jongedamme and her mother.  Oma takes it with faith, and Katy wishes she had that kind of faith. Why did they tear up the family pictures, especially ones that could not be replaced? There is a favorite picture of her father, mother and her siblings when she was a child that is torn and burnt.  "This world is not our home," Oma tells her, and there will be the living reality where we will all be together and there will be no need to pictures."  It is a hard thing for Katy to let go of. "But you must let go of the things of earth. We all must. The world only makes sense, that is, we can only find succor through the cross.  There is no other way than the way that God has provided. You know that, Katy." She nodded.  \par
\par
"You'll learn the Copenhagen fold. Some people say the Lindstadt fold is better, and then the Russians - what they do they say saves time," Katiy shuddered,"You will not learn that from me!"\par
\par
"Why are you so fussy about the sheets being folded so meticulously?"\par
\par
"First, I am not fussy. That was out of line. You should have said, 'why fold the sheets so carefully?' In the future let us have more respect for me.  It is attention to detail and it will carry over into everything you do.  A habit of mind. A character trait. Let us say, God forbid, you have six children sick, and the doctor prescribes different medications and intervals for each. This will teach you to pay attention to the smallest detail.  Or, for that matter, a complex legal situation."\par
\par
"Yes, ma'am."\par
\par
"I will not tolerate the slightest deviation, nor a wrinkle, nor a fold out of place.  The Copenhagen fold requires an exact square when finished one eighth of an inch thick in this material, cotton, and I will use a tape measure to check it but you will not. You will learn to fold it into an exact square within one-thirty-secondth of an inch."\par
\par
"Yes, ma'am."\par
\par
"Blindfolded."\par
\par
"Yes, ma'am."\par
\par
"In less than ten seconds."\par
\par
"Yes, ma'am."\par
\par
Katy shook out the sheet to its full spread and before Ellen could blink, there it was in a neat square.  "Measure it," she told Ellen.  Ellen pulled the tape from the pocket on her apron.  It was exact.\par
\par
"You will learn that. I will teach you."\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
 Others gather with them to support them.  They move into a new stone house. God is always good, Katie tells her son Isaiah, even when He cannot be seen. Somehow He is always working for good. Deem arrives in role of pastor, is deeply moved; he is effective in both consoling and seeing that they get a new roof over their heads, clothing, food, contributed by others.  "Thank you," Ellen tells Deem,"But I still give you no answer - I need to deal with what you see before you, as you know."\par
\par
\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 8  Seth Kuyper\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 viewpoint of Seth Kuyper \strike\par
\par
\strike0 Seth Kuyper was a friend of Isaiah's, an admirer even though slightly older.  He could not keep up with Isaiah.  No one can.  Seth watched all this.  Harry is not interested in Seth. Seth stayed back from the sinkhole.\par
\par
Security finally warned Mr. Poller that his son may be in danger.  He intended to ground Isaiah when he got home.  He wanted to talk to Isaiah himself, not have someone else do it, and would do so "after this iron is laid - almost done." It was thirty minutes back up to the Warren from where he was. They were building a concrete deck bridge with steel girders across a draw on the perimeter road, which would also be used by two settlements close to the southern limit of the Ranch.  Laying the girders took longer than expected, so he was late getting back.  He was the only one with the requisite experience.  They just didn't lay much iron. But Isaiah was not there. \par
\par
Isaiah Poller runs into some Nicholls kids who recognize him and want to know where the gold is.  He leads them to the sinkhole and points, saying they are welcome to it.   \par
\par
Harry and Eliot followed them. Harry attempts to capture Isaiah.  Isaiah cuts across the shifting soil of the outer area of the sinkhole, hoping Harry will not follow.  But he does.  Harry is the first to fall into the sinkhole while chasing Isaiah, who manages to escape.\par
\par
"I don't feel like I am who I used to be," Deem told Ellen,"It's like someone else is living my life through me, like I am standing aside and just watching.  I am not who I used to be."\par
\par
"Well, I think it is Jesus, and I like you the way you are," Ellen said. \par
\par
\par
\par
}
 