{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 Monday July 11, 2016 10:00 AM Harrisonville\b0\par
"Ivanovich, Get in here." The phone clicked off like an intercom, and he was summoned. After all these years he was still called Ivanovich.  He was of Russian heritage, but fourth generation American. Only his last name was Russian: Smirnov. \par
Mike Smirnov walked down the long hall, the best in the bank, to the oak double doors with a label: A.C. Johnson.  President.  While he walked he reflected on the fact that Boss Johnson -which was what he insisted on being called - knew it irritated him, and did it intentionally. It was increasingly clear Boss Johnson did this and a million other things with the sole goal of dominating someone.  He'd been called in before this to count the number of corners in  the room, or to look out the window and tell his boss what the weather was. He still remembered his interview.\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 "Call me Boss," Johnson demanded.\par
"Ok, Boss," the candidate said, smiling.\par
"Say yes, Boss," Johnson again demanded.\par
"Yes Boss."\par
"Wonderful. I never, ever want to hear you say 'No Boss.'  The day you say that you are through. Finished. I will pay you, but you understand that if you say that, you forfeit the last two weeks pay up to that day, and you are gone without severance, right then or there. You understand me?"\par
"Yes, Boss."  \par
"Good.  I am satisfied I have control of the situation.  Control and power are essential to the discipline of a well run organization, which is not a democracy but the extension of the will of the smart and strong over the stupid and weak. I am top dog. One thing I always made clear is that is who I am.  And what does that make you?"\par
"The underdog, Boss?"\par
"Good boy. Good boy." Johnson smiled and chortled.  "Ok,  you're hired. Now, tell me everything you know about the Ranch."\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 This was the famous A.C. Johnson, who had become a billionaire by the time he was thirty via a series of hostile takeovers of companies that he had determined were weak, and then he would break up the assets and demand salary reductions before selling everything and moving on.  Market efficiences, he called it.  Several hospital systems, medical clinics and pharmaceutical companies run by doctors, nurses and pharmacists had been his prey. They were out of their depth in running companies, and he made them pay for it.  He thought businesses should be run by professionals skilled in law and administration, and any professional organization with sufficient assets was a target.  He passed over engineering companies because they could only be assessed as the value of their current contracts. Grain companies were a lucrative area he mined, and so he had moved to the midwest, to Harrisonville, Missouri, in fact, to be close to the action.\par
That was what he had told people.  Over the course of some years Mike learned he was really after Kikker Industries, run by a potter of all people and his pharmacist brother.  Some of the medical companies he had taken had shown millions of dollars in sales to Kikker Industries of Nicholls Missouri, and his calculations indicated they must have billions of dollars in revenue and assets, just waiting for him.\par
"What good is your ---- degree in Finance if you don't know who owns it," Boss Johnson snarled at him one day.  "Find out."\par
Mike still lived on the Ranch. He'd grown up there. He'd tell Boss Johnson some things about the Ranch, because he was always wanting to know, and he would take notes and follow it up with a dozen more questions.  Boss Johnson now had a map as to where various people lived. Mike thought he missed the most important things about the Ranch, things he never asked about.  It was a --- trailer court with religious fanatics in Boss Johnson's view, and apparently some religious crazies owned it.  This was intolerable.   \par
 And so he had bought what was now the A.J. Johnson Bank in Harrisonville Missouri. He had come from New York.  Only his staff knew what his takeover targets were.  He had replaced everyone at the A.J.Johnson bank with people he himself picked. His takeover team was skilled, ruthless, determined, the cream of the cream and the best of the best. Mike was proud the day he was on that team.\par
That's when his eyes opened.  Boss Johnson laughed about a bank he had taken over, a little family bank.  He'd won that one in court and the previous owner was now penniless and facing retirement age.  The Boss laughed again as he'd said the owner had faced him angrily on the sidewalk afterwards and told him that the lives of a lot of good people had been ruined and he was ruined.  And Boss Johnson had laughed in his face and walked away. He had no use for weak people.\par
Mike also learned from the rest of the team there were two sets of facts. One you told Boss Johnson. The other was the real set, which the team knew.  Boss Johnson did not want to hear bad news. Bad news meant you got fired. And so he found himself telling things about the Ranch that were close to true, but misleading.  He mentioned a trailer if someone lived there, but if they lived in a stone house, he did not mention that.  \par
So in Boss Johnson's mind Kikker Industries was owned by twelve old, poor Pentecostal crazies who had been kicked out of their denomination.  They could not possibly know anything. And they were continually in court and in trouble with various government agencies, such as the Department of Labor, the IRS,  the environmental agencies, the Corps of Engineers, etc., etc., etc.   This was very good, but it had the side effect that he could not get ahold of a any of their financial information. Whatever money they had was being gobbled up in legal fees.  And Mike did not know what law firms they were using.\par
This was strictly true.  Mike had gone to Elder Cassell after he had heard about the family bank takeover and told him everything.  Should he quit? No.  Dissimulation was fine and if Mike got fired he was still Ranch people.\par
"What do you know about the gold?" Boss Johnson demanded.\par
"There's an old legend, or rather -"\par
"No, I mean, what happened Friday.  Did some kid from the Ranch find some gold? What kid, and where? How did he find it?"\par
Mike knew the details.  He'd been out there standing in the rain.  Isaiah Poller had found the coins in burned down Snake Woods and had gone to buy ice cream with two 1865 gold coins. But what did Boss Johnson know? That was the tricky part.  Mike was not good at lying. \par
"People think the gold is in what was Snake Woods, which burned down Friday. The kid fell into a small hole and there it was."\par
"And here it is." Boss Johnson shoved the two coins, sealed in a plastic bag, towards Mike. "Don't touch them.  That's real gold."\par
Mike stared at the gold.  What had been legend and rumor and myth was reality. Right here. The stories were true.\par
"I don't care what kid.  You lie to me sometimes, Ivanovich, and I admire that. No matter. You are not my only source of information.  The kid is Isaiah Poller. You weren't going to tell me that, were you? Never mind. I've done some snooping, and there was a string of bank robberies during the civil war.  I think the whole Mueller story is true. I decided that this morning.  I want you to go back to the Ranch and find out exactly where that gold is.  Don't come back until you do. Understood?"\par
"Yes, boss."\par
"I don't think you do.  You've been holding out on me for information for years. Instead of firing your stupid rear end I'm giving you a chance to prove it's worthwhile keeping you on my payroll. Understood?"\par
"Yes, boss."\par
"Now get out."\par
Two minutes later, after Mike was gone, Boss Johnson called someone else.\par
"You got his phone bugged, right?"\par
"Ok. Follow him  Discreetly.  The country out there is so flat you should be able to see where he goes, who he talks to, from a distance.  And I want people on the ground, now, looking at Snake Woods. I want a report. Fly drones over if for all I care. That's all."\par
Boss Johnson hung up and looked at the two gold dollars.  After a few minutes he locked them in his personal safe and considered what else he should do now.  If the treasure was as big as legend, it might be bigger than Kikker Industries.  If he played this right he could get both. \par
\par
}
 