{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 They met for breakfast at a fast food restaurant in Harrisonville. They took a booth in the back where they could speak privately. \par
"Easy to find.  You must be Elder Cassell."  He nodded. \par
"Yep.  And you are Deem Futz. I like fast food restaurants.  People leave you alone and the food is cheap and you don't have to wait.  Besides." He waved his hand.  They were the only ones there.  The workers were off in the kitchen, outside of easy hearing.  \par
"Let's cut to the chase. Let me tell you about the Ranch," Elder Cassell said. "Two kinds of people wind up here - those who are called, and come, and those who come and discover they are called.  A primary task of the Council is to help someone determine if they are truly called here, and if they are not, to help them figure out where they are really supposed to go.  We don't just kick someone out - unless they pose a threat to the peace of the Ranch."\par
"I see." Deem sipped his tea."What kind of tea is this?"\par
"Earl Grey.  One thing you should know about us.  We are not a meritocracy. Humility and self denial in service to others are stressed.  No one is to be regarded as preferable to another, as more favored. Each is equal in the sight of God, and so we unhesitatingly do the lowliest chores, or lead, as on the Council, both with a sense of deep humility.  That was born in the Winter of 1978 and has been impressed, so to speak, on the character of the Ranch. The Council has sought to maintain that."\par
"That was a terrible winter, right?"\par
"Oh, yes." He paused, remembering."We were in tents.  We had propane heaters in the tents.  There was communal dining, because we never knew when - or if - our next meal would come. You stood in line to get a bucket of water, and then you had to thaw it on your stove in your tent to wash.  The tents were Army surplus, and sometimes drafty."\par
"Sounds cold."\par
"It was.  Many got ill and left. You had to really be convinced God called you here to stay. It was interesting to watch some people as they just took care of themselves, and others as they cared for others.  The first group pretty much left by the end of March.  We called someone a starer, if all they could do was sit in their tent all bundled up and stare at their heater.  It was the ones who got up and worked on windbreaks and removed snow and cooked and cleaned who stuck around."\par
"A bunch of tough birds, eh?"\par
"Not at all. Not at all. His grace is made perfect in weakness, and we were - and we are - weak.  But the experience  removed any sense of middle-class comfort and entitlement from us as a right. That is, corporately.  We still get people who expect that, and we do what we can to remove any romantic notions from them.  If they still stay, well and good."\par
"I see."\par
Elder Cassell was silent for a minute.  Deem wondered what was coming.\par
"You know that this was not founded as a typical Epper settlement."\par
Silence. Deem nodded.  \par
"We have Eppers and we have non-Eppers.  And we are so close to Nicholls that we are not truly independent - people live here and work there, and a few live there and work here. I did, for a while.  A real Epper settlement is enclosed, with only Eppers, and everyone working and living there. One mind, one faith, one purpose.  Our second model - I know you know this, it's just background - is a church-in-town, as part of a larger community of people. Many Eppers have been abandoning the settlement problem lately.  This Ranch of ours, as far as I know, is one of the last settlements formed, except for some daughter settlements the Ranch has sent out.  On the Ranch property are two other settlements - a closed settlement to the north, and the cenobites.   We asked the cenobites to leave about twenty years ago because we found them disruptive and schismatic.   We trade them mainly stone for furniture.  They make some excellent chairs and tables.  They trade somewhere for wood and somewhere else for food.  The closed community to the north trades chickens for stone. As a whole, we are extremely prosperous. We own Kikker Industries and we do a lot of specialty, high-priced gourmet food production, and we do high-priced ladies' clothing.  You may have seen the shop in town, 'Fuer Die Frauen'.  We have a lot of cash, in contrast to your typically struggling Epper settlement.  We tithe, but most of it goes into the Kikker Industries Credit Union."\par
"God has been very good to you."\par
"Indeed, He has.  But we have reached a point of crisis - that is, the Council of Twelve has - and we need some guidance to get through it.  A pastor, that is."\par
Good grief, thought Deem. How? What? Why? And how could he help?\par
"We've followed the model of the church and state are fused out here, but it is not working. It works for  Epper settlements, but Epper churches in towns always have the state separate. We are now part of the Nicholls area.  In fact, we are larger than the city of Nicholls - more people live out here than in the rest of the county - and we have more wealth.  In typical Epper fashion we do not draw anyone's attention to this.  One problem is that if we change models, we would have to pay people and abandon the contract system. Sell land off. Form utility companies.  Maybe incorporate our community as a town in Missouri. Or two towns.  The Council of Twelve is concerned about losing our identity.  But we are losing it now, anyway.  The younger generation doesn't really 'get' as they say what is so special about the Ranch and why we aren't just like anywhere else.  The land was donated, but that answer is stale, now, and we have no really good answers.  And the civil side of things is getting more complex all the time.  We have been in regulatory battles and litigation with the federal and the state governments for over thirty years, constantly it seems, over many issues.  That's not a good witness.  We own half this county, far more than any Epper settlement ever has, and many of the issues the Council of Twelve has to rule on are things far outside of what we feel comfortable ruling on.  And then there is a concern about the fact that there are no checks or balances on the Council.  We, the Council of Twelve, are really answerable to no one except God.  And that makes us nervous.  We have not had a pastor in many years, and we have preferred it that way, but the more we go on the more foolish it seems."\par
"I see," said Deem.  He had a lot of half-formed questions, and no answers.\par
"Do you see what you would be getting into?"\par
Deem thought for a moment. "No, not really.  I think we need to have some long discussions before I can make any recommendations.  And I think changes will have to come with the involvement of everyone, not just a dictation from a pastor.  God speaks through His people. I would think that in something like this people should have a say in what happens to them. Facilitation of the decision making, rather than dictation of a decision, would be the way to go. I think."\par
"Precisely the point, I think.  Here people are used to direction from the Council.  So far people accept what we have done.  We have been cautious and only make decisions when we think we need to.  It just seems to us that this is something that goes beyond the bounds of what we are called to do as a group - it goes to the heart of the matter."\par
"How long have you been the Council of Twelve'?"\par
"It must be thirty years, now.  Jake Profim set it up and charged us with the care of the place."\par
"So, in Epper theology, another pastor or higher would be needed to change the conditions of the call, for example, to reduce your role to ecclesiastical functions."\par
"Yes, that is correct.  And let me say that this realization has only recently been developed inside the Council of Twelve.  Some concerns have been raised by people outside of it, particularly by people who would like to live out here, or have their kids schooled out here, or both, but do not want to go to the Ranch as their church.   Times change."\par
"Don't they ever.  So tell me, what is the relationship of those two other communities to the Council? Are they under your authority?"\par
"Nominally.  I mean, we own the land.  Practically?  I don't think we have said anything to either community officially, as the Council of Twelve, in years.  Many years.  There is some uneasiness about that.  It would be better if there were some lines of authority, I suppose, but we are reluctant to do that and have them object.  They function completely independently.  They have been defended by our legal people when there has been trouble from the state or the federals, but our legal people have been careful to not push buttons that do not need to be pushed."\par
 "It sounds like a mess."\par
"It is. We have discussed this with your bishop.  And it would be a real shock to the people of Nicholls."\par
"They are already experiencing some shocks.  Things are changing there, I think."\par
"Oh, in what way?"\par
Deem didn't want to explain the whole complex dealings between Nicholls and its trailer court. He searched for words.\par
"I hear they've annexed the trailer court.  And you had something to do with it."\par
"Well...Yes, I did.  It may not go very well.  But they did."\par
"That in itself is remarkable.  We tried to get in there and do some good, but every time we tried, the door was shut.  It was a very dangerous place.  We finally stopped trying."\par
"Yes," Deem said.  He didn't know what else to say. \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 