{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 July 8, 2016 1 PM the Ranch and Nicholls Isaiah Goes to Town\b0\par
"I worried for you so much, Isaiah. I know worry is a sin, but sometimes it is just a mother's prerogative. God understands. What am I saying? That God approves of sin? Not at all, not at all. I was concerned for you, very concerned. It was a test of my faith. Let me put it that way, my dear son." Isaiah was caught in her arms.  He'd come back home and was scooped up and held prisoner.  He bore it patiently. "God made mothers to care for boys who do crazy things, and here we are. I love you so much, Isaiah. Why do you have to do things like that?"\par
Isaiah was silent.  How much did she know about what he had done?  \par
Jeremiah looked on, feeling slightly jealous. She saw, and pulled him into her embrace. Ezekiel tugged, and he joined the hug.  Mother let Isaiah go and looked him over. Daniel had wrapped himself around her leg already, and was riding her shoe. Jeremiah thought it was unfair that both he and Isaiah had gone into what had been Snake Woods, and Isaiah was the only one who 'had done things like that'.  But the boy-code commanded silence.\par
"Why, boy, look at you." She looked at a multitude of shin-bangings, scratches, bruises and sores on her oldest, covered by a layer of ash. "You look like you've been crawling in the ashes. I hope not.  Off to a bath with you!"  She decided not to ask him.  There was a balance they had struck between him being honest about what he had done and things she simply did not want to know about.  Her husband felt that kids should be encouraged to explore and that courage was a good thing. 'Better drowned than duffers,' I say, and if duffers won't drown," quoting Arthur Ransome in "Swallows and Amazons. \par
In the bathroom Isaiah looked at his coins.  He had ten: one for the offering Sunday, but what about the other nine? He decided he would ask if he could go to town with Jeremiah and get ice cream for both of them. He considered this. While he could: Papa had not come home and punishment was likely to include being grounded. Literally, as in no climbing.  And somehow Isaiah would have to tell about going into what had been Snake Woods. This was not something he was looking forward to.  Better get ice cream while he could. So he scrubbed himself clean and changed into clean clothes.  He washed the coins, which looked even more like real gold in the sunlight. "Pirate treasure," he said, "Yo-ho-ho and a bowl of ice cream." Eight of them went behind the bottom drawer of his dresser. No one ever looked there. Two were for ice cream.\par
Hair combed. Shoes clean.  Shirt tucked in. "Mama, may I go to town and get some ice cream?" he then asked, in his most polite tones. "I can take Jeremiah."\par
Jeremiah shot him his "how could you?" look. It was his turn for a bath, and he said nothing.  He thought they were in for some stormy weather when Papa and Mama heard the whole story, and Jeremiah planned on being the perfect son.  Isaiah had other ideas. He was surprised at Jeremiah, who usually loved a trip into Nicholls to get ice cream. \par
"Oh, yes, yes yes," Mama said, taking Isaiah's head in her hands and kissing the top of his head. "I am so happy you are alive, my darling son. Yes, go. Enjoy yourself.  Have some ice cream. Do you have some money?"\par
Isaiah nodded, his hands still between her hands.  Was he really getting away with this?\par
"When your father comes home, we will discuss your punishment. I doubt you will be eating ice cream for a long time to come.  Or going anywhere. Or climbing anything. Or having a moment free from chores and schoolwork for a long, long time. If we had a dark cell and chains and stale bread and tepid water and hungry rats  you might be lucky.  So, go, enjoy it, before the storm comes, before the lightning falls.  Life is short, my son. Now, go!"\par
And that was that.  She scooted him outside, hushing him when he tried to say something, kissed his head one last time and there he was.\par
He counted his blessings. Mama had not stopped to wonder where he had gotten enough money to buy ice cream, as if the ice cream at the Ranch wasn't any good, and why he had suddenly decided to walk into town in this heat.  But it had clouded over, as if the fire had brought cooler temperatures. He could be in bed right now, to think about his sins and the punishment to come.  But he was free for now.  The future was not something he tended to dwell on. Here was an opportunity to grab with both hands, as people said. \par
He'd been to town on this or that errand. It was only a couple of miles between the Ranch south gate and the edge of town.  The sky really did cloud over or he would have turned back.  The breeze was cooler than it had been and the ash was blowing across the road.  He would need another bath sooner rather than later.\par
"Hey, Isaiah, going somewhere?" It was Mr. Maier.  He and his now lived in one of the new stone houses. "You want a ride?"  He had sons, Timothy and Titus and Philemon, and daughters, Becca and Abby and Ruth and Naomi and Betsy.  He picked up the mail in town for the Ranch every day and took it to the Post Office in town.  He worked for Papa and did other things, but Isaiah didn't really know what they were.  His house was where people went to get the mail at the Ranch, and send it.    Titus was a year older than Isaiah and most of them were a lot older.  Philemon always seemed to be sick with something or another.  Isaiah had hardly ever  seen him, because he was sick so much.  The last time he had been at church was a month ago, and he had been carried in on a stretcher.  Isaiah had thought about that: what if he was on a stretcher? Wouldn't he want to live life as fully as he could and grab it with both hands while he could? \par
"I don't want to mess up your truck. I''m kind of dirty." Mr. Maier kept the inside of his truck spotlessly clean.  Isaiah was also kind of concerned about maybe getting whatever Philemon got.  But he had been told he could not catch it. But why take a chance? But then, that was what life was, wasn't it? \par
"Not very dirty.  You  look like you just had a bath. Not a problem, Isaiah. Here, hop in.  Where are you going?"\par
"Where they sell ice cream.  Butler's, on Main Street."  \par
"I know the place. I'll drop you off."  Isaiah got in, but tried not to touch anything he didn't need to.  He didn't want to leave any ash, and he didn't want to get any germs that Philemon might have left around.\par
Five minutes later he was on the sidewalk.  He looked in - the place was pretty full of Nicholls people, and it was loud.  There were people in the booths in the windows.  He looked at them.  Most of them had something about them he wasn't sure about, but he did not want to cross.   They were also all armed, each with a holster at his belt.  The ladies had big purses, big enough for a weapon.   That didn't bother him. It was that other thing, which had no name.  Some of them were not close to God, he decided. Like they had pushed Him away.  That was not something he was used to, but he could sense it. What was life except to please God?  \par
There was a sign in the window of a good looking dessert and a boy about his own age. "Mmm", he spelled out, "Banana split $1.50."  It sounded good. He had the money. He counted out the two golden coins, and shoved them back in his pocket.  That strange sensation faded in his consideration of a banana split.  He could taste it, even though he could not remember how long it had been since he had had one.\par
He pushed open the door. It was loud inside.  All the tables were full and there were two waitresses serving the table.  The long counter with the stools had only one vacancy.  It was on the other side of the restaurant.  He would have to move through this crowd to get there. It was like it closed in behind him as he moved forward.\par
"Hey kid," said a man to his left.  He was sitting by himself. There were a number of bottles in front of him, brown ones, on the table.  He looked sick or something and had not shaved in a while.  There was a pile of burnt-out cigarettes and he was smoking one. That strange sensation returned, as if this man had walled God off and out and away. \par
Yes, sir," said Isaiah.  I'm not sure - is this where I get  ice cream?" He was tempted to ask the man where he was with God, but something told him not to.\par
The man laughed and pointed up at the counter. "Funny kid," he said. "Hey, look at me - I am Mr. Ice Cream." He said this to no one in particular.  Isaiah wondered why he said that. But he  kept walking past the man.  There was something strange about him.  \par
Isaiah sat down at the counter at the only seat, between two big guys who were talking about the fire, of all things.  He didn't say anything, but waited quietly.  The counter was kind of high for him. Finally a teenager who seemed to be in a lot of a hurry saw him. The teenager was wearing a white hat and a white apron, which Isaiah tried not to stare at. He had been taught not to. His nametag said "Kenny".  His face said he was annoyed.\par
"Banana split, please," Isaiah said.  Kenny nodded. "Water?"\par
"Huh?"\par
"You want water?"\par
"No, just a banana split."\par
Five minutes later the banana split arrived, bounced onto the counter in front of him, and the spoon followed with its own little bounce, wrapped in a paper napkin that threatened to blow into the banana split until Isaiah subdued it.  The teenager was gone already.  He yelled something into the kitchen area about needing some help out here. Someone yelled back that they were busy back there, too and Kenny was told to do the work he was getting paid to do. \par
That was not Isaiah's concern. His was the banana split. It was good. Cold.  Bananas were not something he usually got out at the Ranch, and he was used to just vanilla ice cream, so this was really exotic. Chocolate and strawberry. Nuts. Toppings. A little American flag he carefully removed.  Whipped cream. He tackled the little cherry and diligently worked his way through it.  He was feeling full, but was determined to finish it. The last dessert of a doomed kid.  He would take his time.  He and his dessert were in their own little world, and there was a lot of noisy conversation all around it. He paid it no mind.\par
Fifteen minutes later he finished his banana split. It had been good and he smiled and sighed contentedly. He looked around at the booths and the tables and the people, so unlike the Ranch. A lot of Nicholls folk were in there "recovering" from fighting the fire, and there was a lot of noise. Kenny was behind on orders and very busy.  Isaiah could hear him saying to himsel that they weren't paying him enough of this.  People were yelling at him humorously and laughing.  Isaiah did not understand what was happening. Then he realized it was teasing, but he thought it was a lot harder than it should be. Or Kenny did not think it was funny.\par
The banana split was delicious and he took his time scraping the dish.  When he was done he looked at the clock and hoped he could get a ride back to the Ranch.  Kenny was really busy and he didn't seem to notice that Isaiah wanted to pay him.  \par
There was a break in the noise. \par
"Mister? How about if I just leave the money on the counter? Will two dollars cover it?"\par
"Sure, kid," said Kenny. His back was to Isaiah while he filled a malt order. \par
Isaiah took out two gold dollars, counting them precisely . He laid  them down on the counter and dashed out the door.\par
"Get your ice cream, kid?" the man by the door asked him.\par
"Yes I did," said Isaiah,"Thank you very much." But he was in a hurry, and left.\par
Behind him all talk had ceased in the ice cream parlor. He wondered what had happened, and turned  at the end of the building. \par
"Hey kid!" Three big men burst out of the ice cream parlor.  Others followed them. Isaiah realized they were all armed. Something was wrong here\par
"We want to talk to you," they yelled, and things like "Stop." No way, thought Isaiah.\par
There was a little alley right by the ice cream parlor he could go down easily but a grown man, especially like those big guys, would have a lot of trouble in because it was so narrow. He darted into it and onto the top of the fence at the end.  He heard  footsteps and someone in the alley behind him, but they were moving slowly because it was so narrow.  There was a downspout around the corner. Before the man behind him got to the fence or the other man rounde the corner, Isaiah was up on the roof and pressed against it, real quiet. \par
The two men met at the fence.\par
"Where the --- did he go?"\par
Isaiah heard the footsteps of two other men coming around the corner from the other direction.  "He didn't come this way."\par
"I saw him on the fence."\par
"Where could he go?"  that was the voice of the man Isaiah had spoken to.  But there was a scary, angry tone. Something beyond what Isaiah was used to, and he did not like it.\par
They  shook the downspout. "I bet a squirrel couldn't get up that."   "Nah "No way."\par
There was a clanging sound. "He's not in the dumpster."\par
"Or anywhere."\par
"How could we lose him?"\par
"Anyone know who he is?"\par
"He's not from Nicholls. Maybe he's from the Ranch."\par
"Or the tooth fairy overpaid him."  That was the man he had talked to again.  The one with all the bottles,who'd asked him if he'd liked his ice cream.\par
"Well, by now the whole town is looking for him."\par
"He must have slipped past, maybe he is on Washington by now."\par
"How the -- could you ---- lose him?" that was the man who had talked to him, again. \tab\par
"I don't know, Harry. You tell me."  \par
"If he has any more of those coins I want them."\par
They argued angrily for a few minutes.  Then they moved off looking for him.\par
Great, thought Isaiah.  From up here he could see a number of the men searching for him. He also looked for a way out.  They thought he was farther away than he was.  The problem with where he was was that when they turned around they would see him. So...\par
They weren't looking.  Off the roof, down the downspout and then fence, behind the dumpster, behind a parked car, into the ditch and then a culvert under a road.  He crawled through that, along the ditch, across a lawn, over another house and over a fence, through a yard and under some bushes to the main road back to the Ranch.  He carefully looked around for the men.  He could keep low in the ditch along the side of the road and not be seen, and walk back to the Ranch that way. The men had all gone south.  He was headed west. He started. \par
Mr. Maier just happened to be returning.  \par
"My, you got dirtier than ever! And wet. That must have been some ice cream! Hop in." \par
Isaiah realized it was raining, for the first time in months. A soft, gentle rain, just what they needed.  There had been no fire here, and the ground was eagerly soaking up the water.\par
"What did you get?"\par
"A banana split."\par
"They are very good there."\par
"Yes, they are."  Now in the mirror Isaiah saw one of the men in the road behind them, looking at Mr. Maier's truck.  Isaiah was shorter than the seat's back.  Had he been seen?\par
They passed the big John 3:16 sign at the entrance to the Ranch. Isaiah saw that they must have rounded up all the cattle, because there they were in the east pastures.  He saw the long horns and the Jerseys, the Angus, the big beef cattle and the dairy Gurnseys.  All of them.  Well, not the aurochs, because there was not enough strong fence to hold them.  He tried to remember which were beef and which were dairy.  It was safer around the dairy. He was supposed to stay away from the beef, especially cows with calves.  And he was never to be near the aurochs.  He was not afraid to be near them, because they had all been gently treated and spoken to softly. Ranch people were familiar to them, and they greeted Mr. Maier's truck with some friendly moos and moved up to the fence, looking for treats.  Isaiah rolled down the window and threw them some carrots that Mr. Maier kept just for this. \par
His mother shook her head when he got home.  It was off to the bath again for him. And then early bed, which was fine with him because he was exhausted, right after family devotions, which he had trouble keeping his eyes open in.  For dinner he had a sandwhich and a cookie and a glass of milk.  The main meal at the Ranch was always lunch, supper being a light meal. And Mama and Papa had not yet discussed his punishment: it had not been brought up. He was more worried about the men in town.  How to explain that?  If he had explained about Snake Woods, then he could explain about this.  And maybe he would have been told not to use the gold coins or something?  Things seemed to be getting worse.  He was so tired that he could not explain it all.  He would in the morning, he promised himself.\par
He listened to the rain pick up as he prayed. Maybe it would wash all the ash away. Maybe the world would be green again.  He prayed for his family and for wisdom and thanked God for taking care of him. He fell asleep, praying and listening to the pounding rain.\par
   \par
}
 