{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 0700 Friday July 8, 2016 Nicholls\b0\par
  With breakfast over, Deem was hoping he would finally have some time to work on his sermon.  But no sooner was the last piece of blueberry pancake in maple syrup in his mouth and his fork clinked onto his plate, that Kitten was suddenly there.  Deem had breakfasted in peace and had had time to enjoy it. \par
"I want to show you something," said Kitten urgently, "You need to know about this. Let's go.  Take your coffee."  He did. \par
Three minutes later they pulled up in front of a church.  Not the clapboard building that was their church, but a much newer building, on a large acreage.  The nicely paved entrance road wound up a small hill to the top where the building lay.  The parking lot could hold hundreds of cars and the sanctuary was massive.  It was connected to a two-story office and classroom complex by a glass enclosed breezeway.  But someone had placed concrete traffic barriers across the road and for a good distance on either side, so there was no getting to it.  There was a secondary entrance, but it was chained off.   \par
"Stay in the car. Just look."\par
Deem looked at the sign: Nicholls Episcopal Presbyterian Church. Pastor Hartmann. Services at 0700, 0900, 1100 Sundays. Are you going to hell? ALL ARE WELCOME.    Deem did not comment on it.   \par
There was a sense of desolation about the quiet campus.\cf1\par
"That was ours until Pastor Hartmann took over.  We had it free and clear until then. He insisted on renovations - him and the Decorating Committee - and we took out a loan, figuring that we would pay it back.  And then we borrowed for the Evangelism Campaign. And we supported the seminary with a loan against this building. We had a regular attendence of 1,600 on a Sunday morning, often higher, both town people and people who would make the drive. He allowed no argument, no compromise.  He demanded everyone subscribe to every point of the the 1905 Epper Statement of Faith without exception or compromise.  As you know, we are usually a lot more relaxed than that, even a place wound as tight as Nicholls can be.  A lot of people left over that.  He demanded high performance. Either you met standards or you were out. No weaklings tolerated.  He told people that in sermons, that if they came for counseling they would hear it straight and he would not put up with sickos with problems. He believed in what we call adversarial preaching.  I expect you were taught an entirely different model of preaching.  There are a lot of hard feelings.  He overdid it.  You don't talk to people who have not made the Corps like that. Period.  Even though the Corps is beloved, we finally realized we do not want a tightly-wound Marine as a pastor.  Then we realized it would be better to find someone who had never been in the Corps, which is unheard of in the history of this church.  No one in leadership in this town, in fact, has not been made a Marine.  The question on the table, if you don't mind me being very frank, is whether you are an overreaction.  I am afraid it is going to be an adjustment for all of us.  A lot of people love this church - you can expect to see a packed house in the building we are renting.  People want to see the church back again.  They are hoping for a return to the golden days of the church."\par
"Well, you can never go back. You can only go forward."\par
"That is true.  Pastor Schmitt was pastor here for forty years.  He died walking to his car one Monday morning.  His wife found him there. There were no warnings. He is the pastor people will compare you to.  He knew his Greek and Hebrew and his systematic theology. My, he could preach. And he knew people, knew how to handle them, had a good word for everyone and a gentle way. We all miss him. We can be hard people but he had the skin of a rhino and could take it.  He could lead this bunch of bums. Lt. Schmitt lost his right foot on Guadalcanal and spent most of the war supervising drill instructors at Parris Island. He was tough as nails and a real leader. A man's man. A Marine's Marine.  The kind of man you would follow wherever he led.  He kept the team together and got the job done.  Bluntly, you are not him."\par
"No, I am not."\par
"That is fine. Don't compare yourself to him. Enough other people are going to. I think. You're going to think I am changing the subject, but I'm not, now.  Everybody wants to build a Utopia. Nicholls was founded by people who wanted to build a Utopia. Those people out at the Ranch are the same way. Pastor Schmitt, in his way, and then Pastor Hartmann.  We thought he was a younger version of Pastor Schmitt. We were wrong.   Everybody wants to build a perfect church. To bring us back to apostolic togetherness. Even those Catholics, they are trying for it."\par
"Do you know how many Utopian communities have been started in the US of A since its beginning? A ton. The Shakers. Zion, Illinois. Those New Haven perfectionists who caused us so much heartache.  Even the Mormons and their move to Salt Lake. Every time someone comes to the US they think they are coming to the land of milk and honey.  They will be golden from that day forward.  The Democrats and the Republicans and the Socialists all  think that if they get their way it will be golden.  I am too old for a lot of this stuff. I have seen too much, lived through too much.  You know what I want?"\par
Deem said he did not know.\par
"I don't want you to make false promises. I don't want you to say more than you can deliver. I have had it up to here" here he slashed his hand above his head  "with dreams and visions and glorious pie-in-the-sky promises that never show up. Heaven can wait. We live in the now and it can be hard and it will kill you. Be a realist, Deem. These people have been hurt. Pastor Hartmann left us in a world of hurt and the wound is still bleeding.  Hear this if you hear anything: if we, the six elders of this church, think you are going to hurt the people, we will throw you out.  We will talk to the bishop and explain. Now, I have had some long conversations with him and I know you are the only candidate.  That is ok. But you may be an overreaction.  I will leave it at that."  He looked like he was getting angrier by the second.\par
"That is all I have to say. Except one more thing."\par
"What's that?"\par
"The consensus of the elders, right now, is that you are not worth -  but you are the best we have. The only.  The bishop thinks you  are - never mind. So we will work with you."\par
"That's very reassuring." Deem was trying to take a positive spin on this. "I really think that-"\par
A car pulled up.  The driver rolled down the window. "Are you the new pastor?"\par
Deem glanced at Kitten and said,"So far..."\par
"That's good enough.  My name is Jan. Jan Adams.  I need your help.  You see, my husband - that is we are separated? He has a drinking problem? And I went to his apartment and he was just throwing up in the toilet? And drinking beer? I'm hoping you could help?"\par
"Well, I don't know what I can do."\par
"Please."\par
\cf0 The apartment was over the post office on Main street.  It was disshelved and they knocked. \par
"Yeah, what?"\par
"It's Jan."\par
"Come on back."  They headed through the messy apartment.  It smelled strongly of vomit, urine and beer.\par
In the bathroom an emaciated man about forty-five stood, leaning over the toilet wearing only his underwear.  He had not shaved in a long time, or showered, for that matter.  On the counter was an open case of beer cans.  One was on the man's hand.  He was alternating between sipping the beer and vomiting into the toilet.\par
"This is Jim," Jan explained.\par
"Nice to meet you," Deem said.  Kitten was waiting in the car.  He had said Deem would find out this was a waste of time.\par
"Did you bring the beer?  I'm running low," Jim said.\par
"Jim, I think you have had enough, don't you think?"\par
"Nuts.  You must have some big problem, coming in here and telling me I have had enough." With that Jim heaved into the toilet.  Then he took another long sip of beer.\par
"When was the last time you left the bathroom?" Deem tried.  But it seemed hopeless.\par
"None of your business. I'm fine.  You can leave now." And Jim heaved again, beer and blood, into the toilet, and then he popped another can and threw the empty one on the littered floor.\par
"I mean it," he said.\par
Deem and Jan stopped outside the apartment.\par
"Is there anything I can do?"\par
"When he passes out you can call an ambulance.  That's about all.  And I wouldn't get him any more beer.  He needs to bottom out.   I cant help him."\par
"Why? You're a pastor, aren't you? What do you mean by coming in here like this and not being able to help? You should be ashamed of yourself!"  And she stood in the doorway and shouted obscentities at Deem until he was through the downstairs doorway.\par
"You were right," he told Kitten.\par
Just then the fire alarms went off all over town.\par
"Fire alarm," said Kitten,"this will have to wait.  Best you pitch in and be seen." They looked at a line of black cloud that had suddenly appeared to the southwest.  A breeze was mounting that held a bitter, hot taste. \par
A jeep pulled up.  "Civil Defense" was marked on the side.   "You boys report to the armory for mobilization. Right now.  We got a prairie fire out there that will hit in twenty minutes.  If we don't want this town to be a charred ruin, we hit back."\par
With that he was gone.\par
At the armory there was a map-board showing the fire line as it advanced. Someone was organizing people into patrols and telling them what their position would be.  And workboots. Get shovels.  Wet everything down in your assigned area. Watch for embers.  Make sure everyone is aware of what is going on and send them here if they are able-bodied.\par
Deem thought it would be smart-mouthed to say "Aye-aye--sir." But some people did.\par
Kitten, six other people - three women and three men, and Deem were in a patrol. Their area was  Tripoli Street between South Seventh and South Eighth, and into the town three blocks.  Here there were houses.  The shooting range was out of their area,  on the east side south of Tripoli, and there were more houses west of them.  It was open country beyond the row of houses on Tripoli: rangeland that was tinder-dry.  Two men were on tractors cutting a firebreak when they arrived.  Everyone knew each other; most of the people simply ignored Deem. \par
""Ok, we are supposed to wet everything down." Deem said.\par
 Sam looked at him: Sam in his aviator jacket, USMC cover, fatigue jacket.  Deem had him pegged as a Marine officer, but something besides ground.  Aviation, maybe.  "We're low on water, mister. May had been disappointingly low in rainfall and the end of May surprisingly warm.  By June 1 the grass was already as brown as you usually see around here in July or August.  By June 15 it was actually brittle - step on a leaf of grass, and it would break.  Shatter into little pieces.  By July 1 the streams were at the lowest anyone had ever seen.  The birds left, seeking greener places. Waves of heat shimmered across the hot dry prairie. The leaves on the trees had curled and browned. Where are you going to get the water? The wells are about tapped out."\par
There was a screeching sound as the snowplows went by on the hard dry earth in pairs, scraping down to the dirt to widen the firebreak.  \par
"We're out of water," one of the other men said.  Deem thought his name was John. He had four kids who were presently running around with other kids, assigned to watch for falling embers.  The wind was picking up and a thick hot cloud came overhead, with burning grass and glowing as it drifted down.  Deem wandered around with a shovel.  There was a fire truck - a tanker - on South Tripoli, watching for anything that might start burning.   Deem had a shovel, which somehow made him feel armed, but then so did the rest of his patrol.  \par
Soon they could hear the fire and the heat and smell grew strong.  A line of rabbits and other small animals leapt out of the grass just ahead of the fire, hesitated, and ran back and forth looking for cover.\par
"Looks like the whole world is burning," someone said.  There wasn't much conversation. Deem was tempted to say the whole world will burn in judgement, but things were apocalyptic enough.  He recalled Peter saying all things will be tried by fire, and only things that are truly valuable will remain.  The elements will be destroyed with an intense heat and the works in it will be burned up.  Sometime, Deem thought, this would be a good sermon illustration: remember when? And it is still coming...\par
  The rabbits stopped running, with their tails down, on the plowed ground, thinking themselves hidden.  The flames reached the firebreak and died. They had no embers that had amounted to anything.  Deem realized it was over.\par
He wanted to shake everyone's hand and celebrate, but people just shrugged. \par
"Wait," someone said, and they did, until the smoke stopped.  They wanted to be sure there were no unexpected flareups.  No one had called an all-clear, either, so they were holding their position until then.\par
"We've been through this drill before," someone said. \par
Nothing happened.  They cooked in the hot sun, Deem thought, and walked the line just this side of the fire break, and they checked for embers, even though it was clear there were none. \par
"We have water back," the owner of 706 Tripoli called out her window.  \par
"Figures," someone on his patrol said.  Deem figured that this would be a wonderful bonding experience.  His patrol, however, was simply uninterested in him.  In anything about him.  His existence was tolerated, as long as he didn't push it.  That was very clear.\par
And they waited.\par
The civil defense jeep came by and people got out and looked around.  Then they got back in and left.  \par
Sometime later the civil defense siren went off.\par
"That's our all-clear", Kitten explained.  Deem nodded.  From the people walking away, he could tell.  The patrol was no more. \par
They turned in their gear - Deem had none - but everyone had to report in the armory, in case someone had been killed or was missing, or had prisoners to turn over to the military police, Deem supposed, and if they had gear they had to turn it in.  A doctor also looked at everyone briefly for heat stress.  Deem was told to drink water and go lie down in the shade somewhere for a while.  \par
"And this is a dry heat," Kitten said,"Add jungle rot, those stupid flies, hot rain and snipers and then you have something to think about."  Deem nodded. \par
 Nothing had been lost.  The fire had gone around the town and moved to the northeast. The town had responded well and nothing had been lost.  \par
Deem ate lunch.   He was glad his sermon was almost done, he thought, in a moment when it came to mind.  Something told him it wasn't as done as he thought it was, but he promised himself he would check it over later.\par
About three thirty a rumor ran through the town. What did he think of the gold coins some kid had paid for a banana split with?  He did not know, he said repeatedly, had the bank checked them for authenticity? He heard the story of the treasure over and over again in various versions.  \par
People got agitated about it.  The  town was spared the fire but some people wanted to go out to the Ranch, right then and there, and dig for treasure. It's private property, he would reply. They have no right to it. It's their land. It seemed to be having a weird effect on people who had rejected it as legend and now the legend seemed close and real.  An ugly greed seemed to have awoken.  Mountains of gold, mountains of jewels.  Everyone in Nicholls could be richer than kings.  He thought this was unhealthy but some would not listen.  \par
They should put it in perspective.  Why were they not grateful to God for sparing them from the fire? It could have burned them all out of house and home? Why focus on a treasure that no one had ever seen except for four gold dollars? And only a few people had seen them. They were now in a safety deposit box at the bank, and the bank was refusing to say whether they were authentic. \par
Deem thought  they had a misplaced faith in the treasure, an idolatry long hidden and now coming out in the open.  And how had he failed the elders? What could he do to gain their trust and respect? He needed to work with these people.  All day long he felt like someone had kicked him hard in the stomach.\par
\par
}
 