{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green176\blue80;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 12:30 PM July 6, 2016\b0\par
\cf1 The drive south from Kansas City had been hot, even with the air conditioning going full blast in the old Toyota.  The July sun was beating down unmercifully on 71, or I-49 as it was now known, as they left the southern suburbs of Belton and Raymore, passed through Peculiar - was it, Deem wondered - and past Harrisonville, across the Nicholls county line and then some more hot,  dusty miles through dull looking ranch and flat soybean fields, monotonous, broken by the odd tree line along a creek. But the trees had turned brown in the heat, with their shriveled dead leaves, and the fields looked burned brown. \i Can't miss it\i0 , he'd been told. \i If you come to the Bates County line, you've gone too far and you'd best turn around at  Adrian. But you can't miss the Nicholls exit. It is the only thing for miles. Only thing in the County. Nicholls is the only town. \i0 Only, only, only only. Sparse. Desolate. Lonely. These were the words that lay behind that \i Only\i0 .\cf0\i\par
\i0 And that was an understatement.  \cf1 Of the counties along the straight-line Kansas-Missouri border with their flat and monotonous low hills and lines of trees, this county was the flattest and the dullest by far.  Perhaps God spent all the good ideas for how a countryside should look elsewhere, like in the Alps, and laid this out to demonstrate divine abandonment. It was almost but not quite deadpan flat.  \i   \i0  \par
He opened his eyes again, and the land looked the same as it had for the last umpteen miles. Were they even moving?  He looked at his driver, Aaron, \strike whom he had met earlier that day at the bishop's offices.\strike0   Aaron was his liaison, his guide, his keeper.  He was there to see that Deem made it to his interview, to where he was staying, that he met the people he was supposed to and got to where he was supposed to go.  Aaron Muis.  'Muis', Deem thought, was Dutch for 'mouse', but there was not much mousy about him.  He was tall and wide and putting on weight.  In a few years his square jaw would disappear into his chins and his thinning straw-blond hair would reveal a bald pate.  Probably, though, he would grow a beard at some point. Definitely, if he became an elder.   In any case that chin was a goner.\par
\cf0 "You snore," Aaron told him.\par
"It's a long drive from Michigan.  And this looks nothing like where I grew up."\par
"Berkeley Springs, West Virginia, right?"\par
"Right." Aaron had studied his file, knew him inside out.  He was his servant, interrogator, confessor, aide, spiritual director and encourager rolled into one.  He would be reporting to the bishop on how things were going.  Deem had been told to be completely candid and honest with Aaron.  Deem had known that would be coming, and was glad that Aaron was the sort of person who is instantly disarming.  He was easy to talk to, with a knack for understanding what he was hearing and, Deem was finding out, asking penetrating questions.  Often we avoid the questions we should be asking in favor of safe things, familiar patterns of self-deceit and darkness and obscurity we throw up to fog our movements and hide our sin.  Aaron was about light and lucidity and truth.  He had no interest in small talk.  Always what was in the jar, never the label on the container. That was Aaron.  You either hate or love people like that instantly.  The directness was honest, anyway.  There would be no deception, no false promises, no hedging or beating around the bush. Aaron would plow a straight furrow.  Agricultural images, Deem thought, as another  withered soybean field slowly went by.\par
"Nervous? I think you are more worn out."  \par
"I feel like this land looks, frankly. For me, the heavens are brass, the earth dry."\par
"We all go through those times.  It seems the ones God loves the most have it the hardest, sometimes.  God has His reasons. Sorry you are there."\par
"There is no joy in Mudville," he replied, "Mighty Casey has struck out. Only I'm not Mighty Casey."  He was surpised he had said it - that broken record had been playing in his head for years.  It was painful to say, but he also believed it. Ouch. He took it out and looked at it. He should not have been saying it, but there had been such a long series of difficulties, disappointments, disasters, fiascos, illnesses and heartaches.  Deem blamed himself for what he could, but that was not the motherlode.  Sometimes the love of God was a very hard thing, a very hard thing indeed. A strange mercy, often unrecognizable as such. He stretched his arms in front of him.  His best suit, his hands clean, his nails trimmed.  It was stupid that these little things were so important, but they were to many people.\par
He looked out the window.  He didn't want to say any more right then, and Aaron was wise enough t see that.   Deem had long ago lost any sense of hope or purpose.  There was only a grim and exhausted determination to see this through to the end at the level of the emotions.   This was it.  There were no other opportunities. There was nothing else to do, and so he found himself mechanically noting the exit as they turned off and up the ramp.  His face was grim, he knew.  There was no anticipation, no joy, no emotion of any sort. That was gone. 'Grim' was too strong. Maybe 'lifeless'. He said to himself that he was sure to charm these elders with his sparkle. No chance of that, or of the job.  God would have to do a miracle.\par
"You would be amazed at the stories I hear about how people have been down and out and God has come through for them."\par
Deem knew those stories.  He knew Aaron's background.  Aaron and his wife had buried five children on the mission field until his wife went crazy and he brought her back to the States. She was in a mental ward somewhere and never wanted to see him again, but she did not want a divorce, either: not that Aaron wanted one..  Aaron had been through the wringer.  As Paul said, he could comfort with the comfort he had been comforted with. \par
"You know my story. God is always faithful."\par
Aaron, thought Deem, had the stripes to say that. He did not live a cheap grace, was not after God for sensuality or sensationalism, only the long slow obedience in the same direction. He was a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief.  Sometimes when we bear the image of Christ we bear the mark of His death more than the mark of His Resurrection. Deem thought again that the bishop had been wise in assigning Aaron to shepherd him now.  Maybe in more than one way?\par
Aaron was sort of like King David: when you read the psalms you realize you have gone through nothing, in comparison with David.  But Aaron had gone through such struggles. He lived and endured and hoped and persevered.  There was more to him than suffering and death; there was a hope that would not be disappointed that sort of hung around the edges of whatever he was saying or doing.  It could not be directly seen though, but only sort of the corner of the eye.\par
Deem had long been fond of Don Quixote, at tilting at windmills, hopeless charges, and that had been changed when he read of Jim Eliot, missionary martyr:'He who is no fool who throws away what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. ' That had filled his heart at one time, and his life. He had acted on it, had made his decision, and was living with the consequences.\par
"God is faithful to His purposes.  Not always to ours," Deem replied after a while.\par
"True, but He is faithful to us. Faithful to His purposes. Faithful to Himself.  he cannot deny himself, cannot deny His own faithfulness."\par
"Yep. You have to know those purposes. His purposes. The pursuit of anything else, as I heard so often at sem, is idolatry.  Someone said that when we hurt under His discipline, it is because we have loved the other more than Him.  But we cannot always trace it so easily to the source."\par
"Yes.  There are two kinds of pain: those we incur in following Christ, and those we incur by NOT folloing him."\par
"I think I am coming to an understanding of Romans 5: 'we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. Not only so, but we also rejoice in our sufferings, because we know that suffering prodcues perseverance, perseverance character, and character, hope.' The trick is to get past the suffering into the rejoicing in the suffering."\par
"When you have that down, let me know. A 'sacrifice of praise', and all that.  Sometimes God puts us between the Red Sea and the armies of Pharoah, not just, or not only, to test us, but to show us who He is."\par
"Frankly, I have not got past the suffering, he felt. Life has been a long schooling in suffering, in the loss of friends, career possibilities, health (now better, and not an issue), reputation, money, position, power: in short, everything that a man values in our society had been stripped away, or so it felt, leaving him alone with his God.  Corrie Ten Boom said something along the lines of you only know you need Christ when He is all you have.  I have some understanding of that."\par
"You do, you know.  Those who can see have noticed. You keep on praying, keep doing, keep believing."\par
"Who was it said he was alone with God, and God, far too often, was absent?"\par
"I'm not sure. I can't place that one.  How about Luther's idea of God being revealed to us in the Cross? The hidden God revealed in His weakness. I am not very familiar with Luther. "\par
"Neither am I. He wasn't exactly central to the Reformation."\par
"Nope.  Well, not as we understand it.  Some would differ with that statement." \par
"It seems like, in those quiet moments of contemplation there was comfort, but it was always beyond the reach of emotions, either because it was at a level below or above them, or I am just emotionally dead.  Like Christ is looking at me from beyond the Cross with compassion, and my response is simple numbness."\par
 This was something Aaron understood.\i\par
\cf1\i0 They made it up the exit and turned west.  The two-lane county road became Main Street. At that point a big sign. or rather, group of signs, trumpeted what town this was in a landscaped area with some very dry looking evergreens and a brown lawn. . Aaron pulled over to take a look at it, to help him size up the place. There was a very large Eagle Globe and Anchor, as large as the "Welcome to Nicholls" sign. Rotary. Scouts. Knights of Columbus. 4H. "Home of the Bulldogs." Yes, the famous Bulldogs that seldom were less than second in every division they played in.  He tried to be proud of them. Nope. Not even interested. He knew none of them.  The Marine Corps was big here.  Deem had never been in the Marines, scouts, Rotary, 4H, and of course not in the Knights of Columbus. \par
Main Street shot straight west, wide and bounded by one and two-story brick buildings like the main streets in a million other small Missouri towns, with plate glass windows and awnings .  Most of the buildings  were occupied, and most of the vehicles were trucks: pickups and half-ton trucks, and  there were a few horse trailers and truck-trailers with farm equipment, Deem guessed.  Some of the trucks had water tanks or something. He looked at them curiously as they passed. A few people looked at the car as they drove by, carefully assessing them.  Theirs was the only Toyota, in fact the only non-truck he had seen since leaving the interstate. There were not even any SUVs. Just trucks, some full-bodied, some with extended cabs, but all trucks.  They were all clean, too, despite the drought. Denim. Everyone was in denim, despite the heat. There were some straw hats, but it was mostly baseball caps. They wore them funny, he thought, pulled lower than most people do. Sunglasses under the caps.   A lot of people also seemed to have sidearms. Well, he'd been told. He suddenly felt naked without a weapon.  As they went on, he realized everyone was armed.  Were they just crazy or expecting a war? Or crazy to expect a war?\par
He had a sudden feeling of being way out of place, like a missionary parting the weeds and discovering a lost tribe that was amazed at everything about this newcomer. The next minutes would be perilous: would they cook him and eat him or welcome him as a brother? \par
Aaron said, "You are among friends, Deem."  Deem sighed and the feeling  slowly left.  But it was around some corner somewhere.\par
There were no chain stores, no franchises, no big box stores, not even a catalog store. Nicholls had fought all that, and won.  Nicholls people did not want, never had wanted, and never would want to pay money that got sent out of town to some owner somewhere else. And you paid cash.  Aaron didn't think there was one ATM in the town.  You used checks only when you had to.  You went to the bank when it was open.  The Bank of Nicholls did not have a web site.  There had been a commotion when the bank had been sold to another bank in the turmoils after 2008, but there was also no where else to go, and the people who worked there had remained the same, mostly, and they were Nicholls people.  A few bank people came in from out of town, but Nicholls was Nicholls, proud of its traditions and determined to keep them.\par
The bank had tried to put in a drive-up window a few years ago. That had not gone over. You should go into the bank. You saw your friends, people you knew.  None of this stuff where convenience is more important than people. They looked out for each other and that would have gotten in the way. There had never been a drive-in anything in Nicholls. Not a movie theatre or an eatery.  You walked, if you could.  Keeps a town together. Cars separate communities. Exercise is good. \par
Deem had heard story after story of Nicholls and its ways.   \par
"Look like what you've heard?"\par
"Yep."\par
"In some ways they are separated from the rest of the economy.  You can expect the offering to be completely in cash. It is bad form to give a check.  Very bad form. It's ok if you are sending money out or getting it in.  Some people are surprised the town is doing as well as it is. You will be paid in cash, with a hand-written pay stub.  You pay your bills here by going to the various utilities and paying cash. No receipt, either. It's on the basis of trust.  Something missing from much of our society today.  The Great Recession had no effect here.  Maybe they know something."\par
"That's the restaurant," Aaron said, and pointed.  It was a storefront, walk-in, with a deep covered porch and plate glass windows with booths.  A man sitting alone  inside put down his cigarette and stared at Deem until Deem broke the stare.  It was a cold and hostile stare, and aside from that the man had no expression. He had a worn look about him, like he had seen too much.\par
"You have some real types here." said Aaron,"the good and the bad and the mixed, like anywhere.  But it is a small town and the whole Marine thing ramps it up. PTSD is a real issue, and has been, going back a long time."\par
\cf0 "PTSD: post-traumatic stress disorder?"\par
"Right.  The combat wounds that are the worst are those between the ears in someone that is otherwise healthy.  You will find that a lot here."\par
They drove past the end of the brick-fronted buildings.  They passed several blocks of one-story frame houses, each shaded by trees with shriveled leaves and carefully tended but dried grass - there was a no-watering order on -and turned right on Henderson.  After a few blocks of these houses with wide porches all around and trees and each with a garden, and most with a US flag and a USMC flag proudly flying, they came to the church, a white frame structure that could only have a single aisle, its peaked roof sterotypical of small rural churches in this part of the country.  It could have been anywhere. Well, anywhere pancake flat. \par
 With a grimace Deem saw that the parking lot was gravel. He hated gravel and wasn't even sure how to walk on it. It was sort of \i de classe\i0 . He'd hoped to have left that a long time ago. At sem you could park in the parking lots, or in overflow on the grass. But gravel? It was for impoverished third world countries and extremely rural poor areas. Back in the depths of Appalachia there were gravel roads. There it was acceptable.   But here? In town?  You got ruts and potholes and it got tracked onto the pavement.  Maybe out on the rural roads there might be some gravel driveways, but this was tacky.  And what about the dust on his new suit and his carefully shined shoes?  Perhaps they could pave it soon.  He had no idea how the church was doing financially.  Aaron had said little, and Deem had asked less.  If he was interested, he would have asked questions.  But he was just going through the motions.\par
Deem gritted his teeth at the sound the wheels made as Aaron unhesitatingly turned into the parking lot and carefully parked.  As they got out Deem noticed the gravel had been impeccably maintained, rolled solid without any holes or ruts.  \i  \i0 Deem looked around at the six fullsized pickup trucks in the parking lot.  Each had a gun rack across the back of the cab. Variations on "MARINE" and the Eagle, Globe and Anchor were on every  truck. Six elders, six trucks. Sounds right.  An image flashed across his mind of a row of crewcut identical elders, in uniform, standing at attention and an "Atten-HUT" as he entered. Ridiculous, but at times of stress you think of the craziest things.  But then this was Nicholls, Missouri.  He checked his watch. He was only five minutes late. Now he looked at the church again, now a rather severe looking white clapboard building with a basement entrance on this side. They went down the steps to the basement door and the building seemed to lean over him, imposing itself on him, crushing him. Who are you, little man? Go away.  The main door was probably on the other side.  He could see the church sign but it was facing away from him. The oven-heat was hitting him as he walked in the sun and he was covered in sweat by the time he got to the door.  It was newly painted and completely free of cobwebs.  The whole town, he reflected, was overly clean. No chipped paint anywhere. No trash on the ground.\par
Aaron knocked. After a silent minute, in which Deem fought the urge to simply turn around and leave as fast as possible,  Aaron amiled and he opened it silently and they entered the cool darkness, which was refreshing.\par
\cf1 Aaron stood back and motioned for Deem to go forward. He would observe.\cf0\par
\cf1 "You Futz?" asked a gruff voice sitting somewhere in the shadows.  They have been waiting, these elders, and he was late. All that was in those two stacatto words.  You should be somewhere ten minutes early, he recalled with a shock, here.   By Nicholl's time he was fifteen minutes late.  They were of the mindset, he recalled, that there was a lotta work a man could do in fifteen. Ruder'n all get out to keep someone waiting, let alone the elders whom he was meeting for a pastoral interview. Not a good start. Not at all.\par
That, also, was in those two words.\par
"Yes, sir," he replied nervously.  When he was nervous his voice went up. He could not help it.  He was surprised at sounding nervous, surprised at feeling surprised.  Here were feelings rising out of the deadness inside.  These were strangers, who came and parked, aliens showing up for the meeting, from an entirely different world, culture, outlook on life.  If you went to deepest darkest Borneo you would have to learn the language.  But learning theirs, even though he knew it was English, might be far harder.  The men stared at his new suit, he stared at their short hair and their beards, their overalls, their calloused, meaty, powerful hands, their eyes.  Some of those eyes said they had seen things they never, ever talked about, memories that they stuffed deep inside. Those hard eyes were not friendly in their examination of Deem Futz. It seemed to Deem that they regarded him as they would someone who washed out of Boot Camp the first day, or worse.  Frowns were exchanged among them. They were solid, hardworking, strong, established people, all at least ten years older, if not twenty, than he was. The normal age for an Epper to become an elder was sixy, but that was not always observed.  Each looked like they could break him in half with one hand, even the ones who looked like they had passed the eighty year mark. And like they really didn't care whether they could break him.  He was irrelevant, except there he was being a nuisance. Somewhere in the silence, away in the dark depths of the church, was a tiny sound, either a clock ticking or an insect or water dripping - Deem was not sure which - that normally you would never hear.  Only in awful silence do you hear such things. Deem curled his toes up inside his shoes.\cf0\par
The only exception among the elders was one who looked a little younger than the others. His hair was longer and his beard shorter than the others. He sat a little apart and farther back. He seemed to have kind eyes, Deem thought, and a slight smile. He seemed a little sad. But it wasn't sadness.  Deem could not place what it was.\par
\cf1 They didn't bother getting up. The nearest frowned when Deem extended his hand to shake.\par
\cf0 One fellow, whose bulging right bicep proclaimed in blue, "Semper Fi",  \cf1 suddenly spoke. "I am Sands, session clerk. Welcome." It seemed sincere to Deem, but he wasn't sure.  \cf0 There were nods, but they were unenthusiastic. What kind of a pup is this? seemed to be the consensus.  Deem wondered how much of this stuff he was reading into the situation that was not there.\par
\cf1 "Thank you," Deem replied.\par
"Let's skip the introductions," someone said.  There were murmurs of agreement.\par
There was another awkward silence.  There did not seem to be anything else to say, not really. It was their move.  He hoped the questions would be mercifully easy.  He hoped he would bother to answer them.  He hoped it would end soon, and he could go off somewhere and be miserable.\par
"Well, we have two other candidates to look at. You'll be preaching Sunday. By the way, with all respect, people are on time in this town. Best to remember that. With all due respect. By coming this late you answered our biggest question. All. Due. Respect. Sir."\par
With that they explained, there  was work waiting, and they left him there. They each carefully said their goodbyes to Aaron.\par
\cf0 Aaron waited silently, without expression, watching Deem.\par
\i Never, God, have I felt so small. Or alone. Or out of my element. What am I doing here? \i0 A verse came to mind, "My grace is sufficient for you, for power is perfected in weakness." At least he could not rely on his own strength, here.  He was out of his element. Out of his culture. He was a suburbanite at heart, hoping for a little church, always repulsed by both the rich and the poor. Growing up, he had always wished he could have grown up in the suburbs of DC, from which all those happy families came to Berkeley Springs on vacation, without a care in the world..  Life had set him some choices and the  only thing it had whittled down to had been seminary, and to his surprise he had gotten in. To his further surprise he had passed all his courses and there had been money for them, even though, every semester, both those points had been in grave doubt. No other churches had been interested in his candidacy as a pastor, and to be a missionary your grades had to be higher, particularly in the languages, Greek and Hebrew, than his had been. Further theological education was out, too, and since it seemed God had shut every other door, Deem was obligated to pursue this one path. This strange path. This pastorate. The seminary had gotten a phone call saying that they were looking for someone three days after the last other pastoral candidate in Deem's class had accepted a call. Deem had interviewed and watched his friends take pastorates he would have liked. Some suburban in the DC area.  \par
So he was here, in the little town of Nicholls, in this dry and thirsty land where there seemed to be no water, in more ways than one.  He was surprised at discovering he had sunk to his knees. He felt hollowed out, measured and found wanting, a failure in every way. And God seemed silent and far away. He repeated the verse: "My grace is sufficient for you, for power is perfected in weakness."  \i Well, God\i0 , he said, \i if you pull this one off we'll all know it wasn't me. \i0\par
There was strength in that, and his heart lightened enough that he gave a small inward chuckle, a chuckle of confidence. Another emotion.  But it was also deeper than that.\par
He didn't want to leave, yet. For one thing, there was nowhere to go except where he was staying, which was with one of them.  He wasn't ready for that.  He also wanted to see the church. He might as well walk this thing out to its most bitter end.\par
"\strike Can you show me around?" he asked Aaron.\par
"I think you should look yourself.  I don't want to spoil your first impressions. I'll wait for you. Take the time you want."\par
\strike0  \cf1 The basement doubled as a fellowship hall, where he was now, and currently had folding tables and folding chairs set up in neat, orderly, if not overly precise rows.  There were little marks on the floor where the table corners should go, he noted.  There was a mop closet with the water heater and furnace, and two restrooms, both immaculately scrubbed and clean. There was a large locked closed that said "Decorations" on its sign, and "Decorating Committee Only" in stenciled letters. Upstairs was the sanctuary. No office. No nursery. But everything was scrubbed to an inch of its life. There were pictures of men in uniform everywhere you could put a picture, young men, not smiling, alone, in uniform, in front of a flag. All of them had a little brass plaque with a name and a rank and two dates and three letters. He looked at them and there were only two sets of letters: either it was KIA or MIA. \i I wonder what that is all abou\i0 t.  . He wasn't sure he wanted all those pictures up, if he got the job.  Maybe he would ask someone if anyone would mind if he took them down.  The whole place was like an ad for the Marine Corps. Sheesh.\cf0\par
\i Well, Thomas J. Spinkster, 1 Lt. USMC 1920-1944 KIA, \i0 he said softly, looking into the eyes, what \i would you think of that?  \i0 Lt. Spinkster gave no answer, but Deem became aware of an immense, solemn sadness, a  dignity that seemed to hang about the quiet church. The Lt.'s picture was in the middle of a group of other men with the same dates. Well, he said, I might as well go. \cf1 But he went into the sanctuary instead.\cf0\par
\cf1 "Meet Every Challenge With Your All," read one banner. Another, "Be Strong and Very Courageous, for the Lord Your God is with You Wherever You Go - Josh 1:9" read another, and "Suffer Hardship with Me as a Good Marine of Christ Jesus 2 Tim 2:3".  There was that quiet sadness again, \cf0 and more pictures, like a gathering of warriors, like Valhalla. But they were not pagan Vikings. Or the Communion of saints\cf1 . He had an eerie feeling of being watched. "We finished our race. We gave our all. Will You?" he could read in the eyes of Edmund Spence, Cpl USMC, 1900-1918 KIA. There was a picture of a couple, smiling, in civilian clothing , against a tropical background. 'John and Angela Bourne, Missionaries 2015, KIA".  He remembered that incident as it had happened while he was at sem: they had been taken hostage on the mission field and killed. KIA, then, was 'Killed in Action'. .  This church had paid in blood for its right to exist. This town was - well, he, Deem Futz was first of all unworthy to be here, but this answered something in him that this church, this town, was really alien to him, and there was no way he could ever measure up or even understand them.  There were other pictures of missionaries, other military pictures.  The walls were covered with them, all of them looking out, the missionaries with smiling, relaxed faces.  All of them had the dates completed.  All were KIA or MIA.  Not Momma Mia. Missing in Action?  \par
He sat down, three pews back from the front,, in the silent church, in the stillness.  In the remote past, he remembered, he had powerfully experienced the presence of God in a silent church. But now waves of feeling from his youth were rising, when he had read too much science fiction. The cold, hard, uncaring vacuum of space. The wheeling, uncaring stars. The cosmic emptiness. The lack of meaning of life.  Futility. All was vanity. What meaning could any of this have?  What purpose? What goal was there that was worth pursuing? What treasure besides a God who was silent and absent? As a deep pants for water so my heart yearns for Thee, O God, he prayed. Why would men replace heaven with a cold hardness of space, and exchange God who loved them for an apathetic cosmos that woud indifferently crush them? Why do people turn from Him Who will not turn from them? And yet, how far, how far off God could seem, so far away. God I know you care. How about a little in the feelings, in the perception, in my mundane reality?\par
"Blessed are those who do not see, and yet believe."  he heard himself saying.\par
Silence.  Outside even the crickets had given it up. \par
The church door opened and there were footsteps.  Someone was entering the church. He really wanted to be alone just now.  Alone with his misery and the fact that God was silent and seemed to have abandoned him. He would get over it, someday. He fought some bitter feelings.  \par
The footsteps came closer .It did not sound like Aaron. He pretended not to hear them.  He became aware they had stopped at the end of the pew he was in. Someone was standing there. He turned and looked.\par
It was the seventh elder, the one with the longer hair and the shorter beard and the kind eyes.  They were the kindest and gentlest eyes Deem had ever seen. He felt like he had known this man a long time, although he could not place him.  \par
"Mind if  I join you?"\par
Deem beckoned with his hand, not trusting his powers of speech, and turned to face forward. again.  The elder sat as if he had made a calculation as to how close he could sit to Deem that Deem would neither feel like his own personal space was being violated or that the elder was too far away.\par
Neither said anything.  But Deem could hear the elder breathing. It was a soothing, regular, sure thing, like it had begun before the foundation of the world and would go on afterward: confident, enduring.  An easy and a light breathing.  Nothing would every be too hard for it. Ever.  There was a strength in it.  The man would not leave and Deem did not really want him to. He found he was glad he was there.\par
It was an odd thing, this.  It was like this living, breathing, warm human being sitting within arm's reach, by his very presence, made all the thoughts of isolation and abandonment and the cold hard emptiness vanish, run away and hide.  There was meaning and purpose and a charity and a joy and a laughter behind the silence of the universe. It wa silent, he thought, because it was trying not to laugh.  Was he quoting Chesterton? Not sure. He had a hunger for God because God had made him hungry for God, because God intended to fulfill that hunger and not just frustrate him.  There was a purpose.  It was not chasing rainbows in search of a pot of gold at the end.  It was the rainbow as God's promise, and God was capable of fulfilling the promise, and would.  How dry he had been.  Now, not so dry. There was reason for hope, and so there was hope.  Whether he got this position or not, life would go on. God was still in control.  If he wanted Deem to have a suburban DC church, he would get one. Deem said to himself that God's plan was the best and such a church would just be rubbish if it was not what God wanted.  All things were behind him. Press on. \par
It was like he had had an enormous bundle tied to his back - his past - and he cut the ropes. It slid off into the past.  That was then. This was now.  There was a future, though he did not see it or know it.  He could go on.\par
As they sat there, silent, Deem felt encouraged. He was not alone. He turned to say something to the elder about how he appreciated him being there.\par
He WAS alone.  How or when the man had left, Deem did not know. He must have either been concentrating or asleep.  Odd, that.  But he left behind a different way of looking at things, something that Deem could go on with. Now it was like he had long ago been at the end of a rope and had let go. Deem felt, oddly, like he had been caught. \par
Deem stayed some minutes, hoping the elder would return.  He did not.\par
He looked at the pictures looking at him. As he sat in the presence of God and this cloud of witnesses he felt himself hardening, rising to the challenge. Determination rose in him to do this, to not walk away defeated. How could he, after this?  He was no longer unable to win. He was only able to win. A strange thought, a strange feeling, a turning point. He knew things would be different.  Life had changed.  Not only "going on" but living.  He felt like he could breathe again, like joy was possible, like he could sing.\par
Deem looked around the church one last time and left, this time through the front door. To his surprise there was no lock.  Where was the office? There must be another building with the office.\par
He closed the door behind him again after looking at where the lock should be and was again surprised to find there was no lock. \cf0 Turning around, he discovered a young man waiting for him. He was slight of build, with a thin short beard , or rather unshaven, like many guys thought stylish, and thick glasses.   Aaron was standing off, out of earshot, but waiting.  Aaron, Deem thought, had an infinite capacity for simply waiting effortlessly. \par
"Reverend Futz?" the young man asked.\par
"Well, I am not ordained - not yet, anyway. I am just a candidate for the pastorate. And you are?"\par
"Lew. Lew Bread.  I am a member - I mean my parents are members, and I joined last year, so I am a member. I mean, I grew up in this church."\par
"Ah."\par
"You look like someone I could talk to."\par
"Well, I have some time." Deem smiled, "and I like to talk to people." \par
"Don't worry about getting the gig - as pastor, I mean. They picked you because they thought you were pliable, someone they could push around. A rug they could walk on. Don't get me wrong - the last pastor, well.." and he whistled.\par
Deem was not gratified by this.  But he let it bounce off and remembered the time he had just had.  Nothing like someone trying to let the air out of your tires!\par
"Bad way to start. Sorry.  I am taking it out on you. Again, sorry. You see, I didn't make the cut. The Marines did not want me.  And on my side of Nicholls that is simply unacceptable. My family has sent its sons, every one, to the Corps since before the Civil War. Not all have come back. But all went, all the men in my family, until me."\par
"I am very sorry to hear that.  You must be very proud of your family, and this must be difficult for you. And for them, you know."\par
"I thought you would understand. You look like someone no one would ever be afraid of, if you pardon me saying so. I think you are someone who understands. You know, compassionate. Not a washed up little failure of a wuss, despite what people are saying. Caring."\par
"I like to think I care." At the moment it would be a pleasure just to smack the kid, an unusual feeling for Deem. Was there any respect for him here? In his mind he saw the caring eyes of that one elder. Like a type of Jesus.  The feeling diminished. All his happiness seemed to be leaving for parts unknown, crumbling, crashing.  He did not live on emotions. Not a basis for thought or action. \par
"You see, Nicholls was FOUNDED by the Corps. That is, it was settled by a bunch of Marine Corps vets after the Civil War as a place for Marines to live in peace. There were men who had fought on both sides who vowed to live together with their brother Marines.  Nicholls was the first Commandant of the Corps - the town was named after him. But you can still see a lot of Marine culture here even today. Our high school mascot? Bulldog. I was named after Lewis Puller. Chesty Puller. Doesn't ring a bell?"\par
Deem shook his head. \par
"I disgraced his name, I did. I am Lewis Puller Bread. I did not make it into the Corps. It is almost law here that to become a man you become a Marine. At least on the side of town I grew up on."\par
"I see."\par
"I am a DISGRACE."\par
"Aren't we all?"\par
"I mean, more than other people."\par
"Please tell me where that is written in Scripture.  Actually, every one of us is one. No matter how good you feel or how tough an exterior you have. "\par
Lew said nothing.  He had heard this before, of course, but the reminder was good.\par
"Do you know John 3:16?"\par
"Yes...Let's see. For God so loved the world, that he gave, that he gave, uh, his only Son, that whosover believes in it, I mean, Him, should not...perish, but have ever..everlasting....life."\par
"Well, that is close enough for now.  Are you under law or under grace?"\par
"I am not sure what you mean. I have to obey the law. I am under the law. Not an outlaw. Don't go calling me a criminal. "\par
"Let me put it this way....Do you run on your own power, or does God power your life?" Deem felt like he was talking not only to Lewis but to himself.\par
Lew looked puzzled. \par
"Grace is God's riches at Christ's expense."\par
Lew nodded, shrugged. He had heard it before.\par
"You need God's grace.  You really need His grace. Especially having to deal with this."\par
"But I am unworthy."\par
"We all are.  He did not come to save the worthy but the unworthy. Not the healthy but the sick need a doctor."\par
"So...I am sick."\par
"We all are. We all need God's grace."\par
Lew looked like he was holding back tears, whether of joy or relief or anger, Deem  could not tell.  Proably a mixture.  His expression became wooden. Clearly he was embarrassed. \par
"Listen....I'll think it over...talk to you later..." And Lew moved off. Deem watched him walk away slowly, looking down, one hand on his face as he walked.He pulled out his sunglasses and put them on.  So, Deem thought, perhaps they are all crying behind their sun glasses. \par
He turned. One of the elders had silently watched this conversation. He came over and shook Deem's hand. \par
"Mike. Mike Spinkster. That is not true about us wanting someone we could push around. What struck us about your testimony on your application was that it seemed sincere. You seem to be truly walking with Christ, not showboating your accomplishments. After Pastor Hartmann, we decided we wanted someone without a military background. It will take some getting used to, for everyone. That is what we are looking for. Hang in there.  Nice job talking to Lew, by the way.  But no one is giving you the job. Or the respect. You have to earn it. And, yeah, this town can be rough. Don't pay the kid no mind." With that he turned and left Deem standing there.\par
It was only then that Aaron asked him if he was ready to go. Deem nodded. \par
\i\par
}
 