{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 Monday 2:00 PM July 11, 2016 Harrisonville, A.C. Johnson Bank Offices\b0\par
\par
The suits around the mahogany table left one side open, as the wall there was a screen on which an equal number of suits in another conference room in another city sat facing a screen in their conference room.  Their suits and accents and facial expressions were interchangeable, except for minor details like gender and age and race.  The locals were in Harrisonville; the second team was the New York office, which Boss Johnson directed remotely.\par
One of those in New York was speaking. "The drone this morning shows a large sinkhole has opened up on the Miller property.  We are thinking that there was a cave there that the treasure was hidden in. The recent rains exposed it.  It's likely there was a much larger void underneath it.  No one has ever gone near it because of a rumor about some venomous snakes.  The fire took care of them, it seems. " There was a murmur.\par
"What about the mineral rights? Jones?"\par
Jones adjusted her glasses. "Our people tell me the Millers signed over mineral rights to us this morning."\par
"That's right," Adams said.  He was on a laptop in a hotel wherever the Millers were, and his face floated in its little screen.\par
"Let me reiterate that the Millers never relinquished subsurface rights in a way that would hold up in court in Missouri," Jones said. "The Millers have agreed to that. And to assigning us the mineral rights."\par
"Some compensation was involved, I assume?" this was from someone in New York.\par
"Well, we don't need to go into that," Adams said, smiling.  There was laughter all around. When someone could not be offered money, they could be threatened.  The team had long been experts at selecting the right combination to force a yield in its favor.  Exactly what that was in a certain situation was generally known only to a few, and never divulged over electronic media.\par
"Excellent."  Boss Johnson approved.  A second later a murmur of approval followed around both tables and from the few little heads working remotely.  Everyone murmured, as that was one way to keep your job. Murmur well, thought Lansky, he had been told on his first day, and promotions had followed as he had learned how to tell Boss Johnson he was brilliant  and in command, being the boss, and also to tell Boss Johnson how bad their co-workers were. You looked good that way and got promoted and eliminated competition, all assets in this organization.  He was now watching for a lack of enthusiasm on anyone's part, which would mean they were a target for his next assault.  Jones smiled and noted that Lansky seemed a little less enthusiastic than he should be, and made a mental note. He was unfocused. Daydreaming minion. \par
"What was the amount?" Boss Johnson looked directly at her.  Jones hid the fact fairly well that she was surprised at the question. The rules changed sometimes.  This one had, or Boss Johnson was making a point.\par
"Well, we didn't bother informing them of the present speculation.  Why should they want mineral rights on land they have not been on in so many years.  Cash in the hand speaks. We got it for five-hundred dollars." Jones was fairly sure there was a lot more incentive than cash in the situation, but it was need-to-know.  He had told her the amount before this meeting. So she was just his parrot. Not the first time. Not the first time. \par
"Not bad, not bad at all.  And the value of the coins now in our possession?" this was to someone else, someone in New York Jones was unfamiliar with.  \par
"If they are all there is, approximately ten thousand dollars.  If there are more, then naturally the value will go down."\par
"Naturally."\par
"Have we obtained the geologists's report? How can a sinkhole open up in the wrong kind of limestone?"\par
Jones opened the prelminary report, which she just happened to have gotten after nine phone calls to a now very annoyed geotech firm that pointed out they still had no access to the property and the report was just off of generally available maps and could not be considered reliable. "There is a long thin thread of Mississippian limestone that crosses into the county from the southeast and peters out.  It is not more than half a mile wide.  It is true the rest of the county is the wrong kind of limestone - Pennsylvanian - for sinkholes, but this is prime limestone. It is likely it was never noticed. "  Everyone saw a map of Missouri geology that showed the relationship between rock type and sinkhole frequencies. Then there was the more detailed study of the Nicholls area.  The Miller property itself was a white area of Pennsylvanian limestone, but you could see the documented blue area going into it.  There was a sinkhole marked on the aerial photograph that was in a plausible location inside the Miller property. \par
"Are you a geologist?"  This was Nattles, known for looking for a weakspot.  The Boss had approved of his conduct several times when he had humiliated someone during their presentation.  Nattles had been promoted and those people were gone.  The Boss hated it when people demonstrated weakness.  Maybe Jones could eliminate the threat from him: before now it had been a draw.\par
"No, I am not.  I read the report.  It is by a Registered Professional Geologist with a national reputation.  It is not signed and sealed, however.  They insist on boring data, which seems to be in accord with Missouri law.  It is stamped 'Preliminary' in like a dozen places.  Did you read it?"\par
Nattles had read the report. "There are several discrepencies in the report I would like to bring to the table.  Are you defending the -"\par
The Boss cut him off. "Bloodsports some other time, gentlemen.  And ladies. Now, we need to move on several fronts. Parsons, look into the legal situation.  See if there is some way we can get these people off that land now, since we have the mineral rights.  This week if we can, and today would be great.  EOB would be super.  Get them off.   Talk to the agencies - maybe they are in trouble or conflict and that can be exploited. Hannaday - before we do that, we need to see if this treasure is all that it is cracked up to be.  Look into the history of bank robberies during the Civil War in the rumored states - get an estimate.  Check the story. See if anyone actually was strung up.  Lynched. Jail raid.  Find out what happened to the Millers way back then.  I researched it several years ago: I will check what you tell me and it better be more than I found, let me tell you that.. Get a good estimate as to whether it is worth going after.  I want a report by EOB today. Quincy - Hannady, I do not understand why you are still here: I said today, not tomorrow - Quincy, get some people on site today.  I want a good head count on how many people we are kicking out. I also want to see if we can locate that gold.  Better if we just took it and they stood by helpless, heh, heh, but there more than one place it was hidden, so we want the whole thing- Taylor I want a report EOB on how to safely excavate a sinkhole and what kind of equipment is necessary and is available. Owens, check into the legality of the current ownership. Again. Check for changes. Again.  See  who has the mortgage. Look for weak points. We've done this before. Owens, you have always succeeded.    And none of this is to be done in a manner that will tip ANYONE off. Jones, make sure Hannady understands discretion is essential and let me know when you have communicated that. "\par
 Jones nodded.  She would shove a few knives into Hannady while she was telling him that. And then backstab him to The Boss. All in a day's work. \par
"Any word of this leaking and you will not like the results. You will pay.  Now, who are the people now on the Miller property?" \par
"Just a few elderly, ignorant members of a small religious sect. The Epsoms, I think.  They are waiting for the Second Coming or something.  They are living in some dilapildated trailers out in the middle of nowhere. " There was general snorting.  Dreamy-eyed idealists, easy to push to the side when you have the money and the power and the will, and the bank had those in abundance.  The Boss loved his job.\par
"Well, we will sweep them aside.  Let our friends find a way they need to leave. That is the ticket nowadays, and our hands will be clean."\par
"That is it."  They all left very quickly.  The Boss noticed who was the last to leave. That individual would be fired in the morning.  The Boss believed in the survival of the fittest, not the slowest. Minions weak enough to get fired. He hated them all.   He thought for a minute.  Billions of dollars would be his, as a bonus. He would see to that.  \par
\par
\par
}
 