{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 July 11, 2016 The Ranch An Unauthorized Visitor\b0\par
\cf1 "How are we going to get him out of there?"\par
"That's easy." Matt whistled for the dogs.  They moseyed out of the shade under the new canopy, reluctant at having been summoned.  They sort of wandered over to Melanos, who was standing over a figure lying facedown in the dirt.  The man was dressed like an outsider and his Jeep was parked just outside the fence.   \par
The bull grunted and pushed at him. Melanos probably thought he was being gentle.\par
"What is harder is trying to figure out what kind of a fool goes in where there is a strange bull."\par
Matt whistled again, and the dogs got the bull to go stand in his shade under the trees.  He flicked his tail from time to time, but stood there.\par
"We need a stretcher."\par
There was one handy, in the little building where the vet worked when he came.  They walked slowly.\par
They saw no blood on the man. He was wearing a sleeveless black  t-shirt, which Matt thought was pretty stupid in the July sun.  He had some dirt on in - it looked like Melanos thought he was a toy and had rolled him over several times.  Matt looked over at Melanos, now surrounded by his dog buddies, standing in the shade.  He was several hundred feet away. A bull is most dangerous when within twenty feet. But you could never really trust a bull, particularly a bottle-fed bull.  They tend to think they are people and have no respect for people.  Matt suspected Melanos thought he was a dog more than a person, but that did not decrease the danger.  His bloodline was so high and his physical form so excellent that he was a superior stud.  He had, until now, never given any indication that he would hurt someone.  Bulls that gore go to the slaughterhouse and never get a second chance.  They had always been careful with Melanos.     They would have to get the man out.  That might take some time. Later they would have to determine if Melanos was now a problem.\par
Pete and John had the stretcher laid down beside him. \par
"Mister, are you ok?"\par
The man did not respond.\par
"What if he has a back injury?"\par
"Did anyone see it happen?"\par
"No. I looked out and there he was, lying down in the pasture, with Melanos grunting at him. I got you guys. Now here we are."\par
"Maybe we should wait for somebody who can evaluate him better?"\par
Matt looked at Melanos, who curiously looking back at them.  If he got too curious, that could be dangerous.\par
"Let's get Melanos in the pen."\par
So they whistled again, and the big bull was escorted by the dogs into the pen. Pete locked it and came back.\par
Matt was looking at a thin, wicked looking knife. "I checked his arms and legs for broken bones. Nothing. But I found this in his boot."\par
"Nicholls folk don't carry those. "\par
"No, they don't.  And he does not have a ball cap, or a sidearm."\par
"Not from Nicholls."\par
He had no hat at all.  They looked around.  It had not been knocked off. \par
"Best thing to do is to try to wake him up and see if he is hurt."\par
"Mister-" said Matt, bending down.\par
Matt found the man's left arm grabbing his right leg hard as the man pulled his legs under himself  and started springing to his feet, with his other hand clenched in a fist that was swinging round to Matt.  Matt shifted all his weight to his left leg and kicked hard with his right into the man's unprotected solar plexus.  He blocked the swing, grabbed the incoming arm and made the man's face meet his right elbow. The man fell back down and felt his nose.\par
"All that martial arts stuff pays off, sometimes."  Matt spent a lot of time teaching mixed martial arts.  He worked Ranch Security.  It was amazing how many people tried to get on Ranch property.  The Ranch was very friendly if you came through the gates.  Otherwise, not so friendly.  Ranch Security was always shortstaffed, it seemed.  It was a big place. Matt looked at Melanos, who was now looking away.\par
The man was glaring.  His nose was bleeding, and Matt guessed it was broken.\par
"Well, mister, your back isn't broken.  We are going to get you out of this pasture and then someone will want to know why you were here to begin with.  Now, get on this stretcher."\par
"I can walk," the man said angrily, still feeling his nose.  Pete handed him a handkerchief, but the man threw it down. \par
"You just lie down on the stretcher.  You are trespassing." \par
The man looked away with a disgusted look. He tried to get up but Matt pushed him back down.\par
"Let's be reasonable.  There are three of us, nine dogs, and only one of you," said Matt.\par
"And one bull," offered Pete.\par
The man spat and cursed. \par
"You are going to get on the stretcher."\par
"Ain't gonna happen."\par
Matt whistled.  The dogs started trotting over. Melanos bellowed. He wanted to be with his pack.\par
"You want to go another round? The dogs really don't like people fighting Ranch folk."\par
The man cursed at them and laid down on the stretcher.  Soon he was tied to the stretcher, and they took him out through the chute.\par
Once he was out of the pen, Matt took out his phone.\par
"Central. Matt."\par
"Matt, Central."\par
"We have a trespasser subdued at the old gate.  He has a Jeep just the other side of the fence."\par
"O-kay. We will collect him. Over." \par
They move the stretcher into the shade.\par
"Are you thirsty?"\par
"Shut up."\par
"I don't think it is smart for you to talk that way.  Really.  I mean, really.  We are just trying to take care of you.  People are interested in why you were sneaking in  here.  Now, are you thirsty?"\par
The man closed his eyes and ignored them until a pickup arrived.  "Ranch Security" was marked on the side. Two uniformed men got out.   The man was put into the back, still tied to the stretcher. The men his knife, which they put in a plastic bag. and Pete went with them.  Later someone came and collected his Jeep. \par
Lately, they had been very watchful.  \par
\cf0\par
"I don't know anything, and you can't hold me."\par
"You think you know that."\par
He'd been told to count trailers.  Number of people. Dogs, if he could.  \par
"What, you wandered through the fence accidentally? Who sent you?"\par
The man said nothing for a while. Then, "I was lost and looking for directions."\par
"What were you doing down here?"\par
"That's none of your business."\par
"We're making it our business.  You see, we have an agreement with Nicholls County.   You seem to have missed the 'No Trespassing Sign'.  And I believe this knife of yours is illegal. Nicholls County might also be interested in what we found when we checked your criminal record. And a few things in your Jeep."\par
"I'm not talking."\par
"Fine. You can talk to County."\par
The man looked down and away, not happy.\par
\par
"That's an actual trespasser near the residential section, Elder Cassell," Pat told him. "We also have spotted a number of drones flying over the Ranch, or one making several trips.  I think those gold coins got someone's interest.  And there was a trespasser farther south.  We watched him go into Snake Woods and then leave shortly afterwards.  What should we do?"\par
Elder Cassell shrugged. "We can pray, I suppose.  Hopefully we will find out why that fellow was here.  He could have come through the north entrance.  We've kept the south gate mostly locked, but he could have honked and probably someone would have let him in.  I'd say post two men at the south gate and let's have some horsemen riding like we used to, up and down the east fence - one team going north from the south gate and another going south, just to establish our presence. I'll discuss this with the rest of the elders."\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 