{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 July 8, 2016 7 PM the Ranch \b0\par
\cf1 "Things are really ugly in town," Isaiah's papa was told. "Sounds like a bunch of troublemakers think the treasure is at the Ranch and are going to turn the place upside down until they find it. Tonight."\par
"We can't have that happen."\par
"No."\par
\cf0 So Isaiah's papa was standing in the road not too far from the south entrance, where there was fence on both sides.  Three other men stood with him.  It was raining, and the water ran off their broad-brimmed hats and down their clothes.  They were unarmed.   The men who were coming were no doubt all former Marines, and armed, as everyone was in Nicholls. Nicholls had a really ugly side, an underbelly of people who would do just about anything for little gain.  They had discussed bringing weapons, but had agreed not to.  They would probably lose in a shoot-out. So they needed to fight in a way that they would win.  It was less likely that there would be weapons drawn if there were no weapons, so they were unarmed.  Ranch Security had been willing to handle this, but the problem seemed to have started, Isaiah's papa was guessing, with his own house.  There was something Isaiah was not really telling, something he would address with him in the morning.  It was his responsibility to keep his family safe. \par
They stood there silently as the sun went down behind a wall of rain and it got really dark, as it does in a night of rain or on a moonless night.  Still they waited, silently.  The women and children had been taken to the school and there were other men, further back, and they had done what they could in the way of being prepared.  But they were hoping they could stop it before it started. Some of the men in town had talked about the Ranch women in a way no one should be spoken of. Word had gotten back to the Ranch from some people who worked in town but lived out here: ugly, evil talk. A boy with gold coins. And them Ranch women. It was about time....\par
\cf1 Whether we live or die tonight, he thought, God will take care of us.\par
And it rained on.  In the rain, after some time, there were headlights as three trucks picked their way along the road in the dark rain, unfamiliar with it.  Coarse joking, cursing and laughter came through the rain to the men silently waiting.  The trucks were full of armed men, men armed with guns and holding crow bars to rip the Ranch up with. They had been drinking and were loud and obscene.\par
"Hey cow-boy, heard you have some fine cow-girls looking for real men."\par
"Cupcakes melt in the rain. Better run back inside, little man."\par
Isaiah's papa stood in the road as the headlights lit him up. He was suddenly huge and threatening in the light, with a forbidding expression, what the Marines call a war-face. \par
"Get out of the way! Run him over!" But the first truck stopped.  The driver saw a figure that he feared, and stopped. He cleared his eyes. No, it was only a man. Or was it? Eyes play tricks in the dark and the rain. He suddenly remembered another dark night when his patrol ran into another Marine patrol and they had almost had green on green.  It had happened too many times, those close calls. So he stopped, his eyes looking at a different night, a different road, a different country.  If he had only braked then, or swerved. \par
"We need to check for IEDs," he said.\par
Men jumped off the back of the trucks and out of the cabs of the other two trucks. Most of them had rifles.\par
"You need to leave now. You are not welcome here now. It is after dark. This is a place of peace."\par
They laughed and moved forward.  They stopped just out of arm reach of the lone figure. \par
"You gonna stop us, cupcake?"\par
One man stepped a little closer and sized up Isaiah's Papa.  He didn't like what he saw: a determined, large, muscular man without fear.  \par
"Come on, Harry, take him out," someone jeered.\par
Harry spat and balled his fists. He stepped a little closer. \par
"Nobody needs to get hurt here." This was Isaiah's Papa.  He was threatening them, which was nuts.  This was a voice of certain authority, to be disobeyed at their peril.\par
"Get back in your trucks and leave now and you will not be hurt."\par
They were not to be intimidated.  They saw the odds. They laughed and jeered. Harry glared at Isaiah's pa.\par
The rain made the only noise.\par
Sam came out of the darkness and stood next to Isaiah's pa. Sam was almost as big as Isaiah'a papa.  He whistled.  A pack of dogs behind the them  snarled menacingly. Most could not be seen.  They sounded like large dogs, working dogs.  There were large dogs at the Ranch, everyone knew.   There were a lot of them out there in the dark.\par
"Stay, quiet." said Sam.  The dogs went silent.\par
 "No one needs to get hurt," said Isaiah's papa.\par
Sam made a clicking noise with his tongue. \par
One dog, Buster, trotted up towards the strangers. He was a cross between a German shepherd and a Doberman, a working ranch dog. He had always been treated gently and he was more curious about them, more so than angry.  But no one messes with a strange, large dog. And he did not like these strangers, but he had been told not to growl. \par
Buster came up between Harry and Isaiah's papa.  He looked at Harry.\par
Harry pulled out his revolver and pointed it at Buster, less than a foot from Buster's nose.\par
Out of the darkness there was a growling, louder than the rain. There were dogs on three sides of them, large dogs.\par
"Harry, back off." Someone behind him sounded alarmed. The men and Buster stood silent.\par
Harry shifted his eyes, aware that there were any number of dogs in the darkness. But he wasn't one to back down, or one to not get what he wanted. \par
"I ain't leaving without what I came for," he said.\par
"What would that be?" Isaiah's papa said quietly. "Life with God? Death without Him? The choice is yours. I think you could find either tonight.  But you are not entering the Ranch."\par
"What's making you do this? Are you crazy?" this question came out of the dark.\par
"Nothing is making me do this. I am doing this freely.  I am a free man. Are you free, or are you slaves to your lust, greed, alcohol, dark minds?"\par
"Aw, man, a preacher," someone spat back.  There were other smirking comments.\par
At another click from Sam,  Stan and Ollie, two more of the Ranch's big dogs, came forward. Each took a position on either side of Harry.  \par
"Harry, you can't fire that fast." Someone was warning him.\par
More dogs came forward, German shepherds, Labradors, Dobermans. These wandered among the strangers, who let them pass. There were more dogs than men, then there were at least twice as many, maybe more, all wandering through the crowd of men.\par
They made way for the dogs as the dogs walked among them,  wandering, sniffing, growling.  The men held their hands above their waists instinctively. The dogs sniffed the men thoroughly, smelling dog and strange things on them that were new to them.  The men from Nicholls  stood still in the rain, not knowing what to do, fearing to provoke the dogs.  Some of the men jumped back into the backs of the trucks, and the dogs followed them up and then jumped out after a word from the Ranchers. More men jumped into the backs of the trucks. When they could, they got back into the cabs and the backs of the trucks, the dogs circling and watching them.  They did not like these men.  Sam allowed more dogs to come forward.  There seemed to be dogs everywhere, moving in and out of the headlights, barely visible in the dark.  The men from town were in the middle of a sea of growling dogs. \par
Harry was alone now, and he was aware of that.  Buster looked at him. Isaiah's papa looked at him.  His revolver was still out.  \par
"Come on, Harry," someone said. Two of his buddies came up.\par
"Stand down, Harry," someone yelled.\par
Isaiah's papa saw that Harry had made a decision. "Guess we made a wrong turn in the dark," he said. "Sorry to disturb you people." He put away his revolver. The two men with him nodded at Isaiah's pa and "helped" him retreat.\par
The men started their trucks.  Ollie did not like that and barked. There was more barking and growls from the darkness on either side - how many dogs were there?  Buster slammed into the door of a truck, leaving a deep dent and rocking the truck. It was an older truck, full of rust, you could see.  Ollie sank his teeth into the front wheel cover of the same truck and tore it off.    The other two trucks went into reverse and got out of there.  The third truck, Buster's target, now lost its other front wheelcover to Stan. There was a dragging sound as other dogs found the muffler and dragged it forward.   The dogs circled the truck and growled and barked, showing their teeth when in the headlights, mostly unseen in the dark rain.  The men from Nicholls got that truck in reverse and fled.  The dogs gave chase with howls and growls, and disappeared into the darkness, following the trucks.\par
"Should I call the dogs off?"  Sam asked.\par
Isaiah's papa shook his head. "I don't want them coming back here.  This will give them something to remember."\par
"Stay out of the ditch!" one of the men yelled after the trucks.\par
"Do not rejoice when your enemy stumbles. Pray for those who persecute you." said the other.\par
"I hope no one gets hurt."\par
And they held the road until daybreak, standing in the rain.\par
The rest of the night was quiet.\par
\cf0  \par
\par
\par
}
 