{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 10:50 AM Sunday June 12, 2016 The Ranch\b0\par
 It always seemed too big...Something I could not handle but was strapped to, like to a rocket....The expectations were huge, I mean larger than I think I was prepared to handle, which is why it happened, you know?\par
I am here in front of all you loving dear brothers and sisters at the Ranch this morning.....I am nervous...Surprised?  This is the first time ever that I have stood in front of a crowd and I am talking not singing, and talking about what happened. I've done little intros to songs now and then and I've thanked people for the awards I have been given, but this is different.  That was flash and glitter - I mean I was really honored with all those Grammy and Dove Awards, really, because it was never me. I felt it was unmerited favor.  Gold and platinum albums.  Magazine interviews.  More money than I could handle. People give it meaning, but looking out from the inside, a lot more of it is empty than people realize.  Looking back, it was never me. It was never about me. \par
It always was about me, about my voice, I mean.  Sometimes I felt like it was destroying my life, crowding out the human.  I think of Judy Garland sometimes, and what happened to her. Or Marilyn Monroe.  That could have been me.  That WAS me.  My life was destroyed and there was no longer any reason to live.  I mean, when you wake up in a strange hotel room, and are woken up by the cops, and the guy you slept with - a guy you barely know - is getting busted by the cops, and they photograph you in handcuffs as you are walked to the car, and then from the car into the jail, your life seems over. And the pictures in the tabloids. "Christian singer busted."  Done. Kaput. A disgrace to the Gospel, an anti-witness.  One woman wrote me and called me Anti-Christ. More than one. Dozens, I think.  I read every one of those angry letters.  Someone said Christians eat their wounded. How true.  And I served time on the narcotics violations. They found I was pushing drugs. Me?  I served years. Years. Five years.  He got off. Served no time.  I have not seen him since I entered the Women's Prison at Lansing.  I do not plan to. I barely knew him.  How did I get there? I have asked myself that question many, many times.  And then, how did I get here? And my only answer is solely by the grace of God.\par
I am not being vain when I say that I think there is no one here today who does not know my story or recognize me. Anyone? Raise your hand.  Thank you sir.  And you, ma'm. Thank you. I need your gift of humility to me. If you have never heard of me it is a blessing. A blessing!  I see four people out of thousands. Hundreds? It doesn't matter.  The numbers don't matter.  It is scary to hear you are in the same league as the Beatles and the likes of Peter Paul and Mary, or ABBA or Simon and Garfunkel.  it is something I have to deal with, and that is what I want to talk about today. I was Ellen Ripley Bread.  But she is dead and gone. I am born again....Uh...  The Council of Twelve asked me to talk today.  PLEASE do not applaud. PLEASE.  Applause can be deadly. It was toxic for me.  PLEASE.  PLEASE.  \par
 Allow me to step in here. Please do not applaud.  This is serious and we ask you to take her wishes seriously.  Those are also the wishes of the Council of Twelve.  Silence.   Thank you.  Continue to withhold applause.  This is sermon time, not entertainment. \par
Thank you, Elder Cassell.  This is painful to talk about, oh so painful, but it must be said.  I have gone through hell and I am on my way back....I want to tell you my story, but it won't be the glamour-girl-gone-bad story, the old story.  It is a little different.  The glamour girl did go bad, but Jesus rescued her.  I died one day and I am now living a new life. \par
For those of you who don't know, when I was seven years old - seven - I soloed in the Christmas pageant at my church.  It was my first performance, and people have told me they were shocked at how good it was.  I am not bragging but telling you of what was going on.  From then on I did the offeratory on Sundays and sometimes Wednesdays, and then I was asked to sing at other churches.  By the time I was ten I think I had sung in every Epper church in Michigan and Wisconsin.  At eleven I cut a single that I won my first Dove award for. Eleven years old. From then for the next twelve years I won at least one, sometimes two, sometimes three or more awards for "Best Female Vocalist" from various organizations, and as you know I was at the top of the charts for ten years. Ten years.\par
There is a lot of pressure on a celebrity.  The Eppers were proud of one of their own being made known.  There was some hesitation when I started singing secular music, and my skirts got shorter and disappeared and the music got raunchier.  My albums tell the story: "Come Let the Angels Sing," "The Stars Together Praise God", "Lover of My Soul" and then I did my cross-over album "The Children Cried" and "The Charge of the Light Brigade", then came "Fahrenheit" about the fire-bombing of Dresden, which was the first dark album and then "A Man For Me", "The Cruel God", and finally "Madness".   At the same time that I was chosen as Epper Woman of the Year I was sleeping around and sustaining myself on amphetimines and cocaine.  I don't even remember that last year except as one confused nightmare.\par
People have asked me about my mother, my manager.  I will be frank here, brutally frank.  I don't know where she is.  Let me say that I was born nine months after she visited a truck stop, which she did on a regular basis as long as I knew her, and my half-sister, Ana, came about the same way. I was named after Ellen Ripley, the heroine in the movie "Alien".   That has been glossed over far too long.  She was not my hero. I have not seen her since I got out of prison. No word. Not a phone call or a letter.  I am letting that situation go with forgiveness, without rancor or bitterness.  It is likely that might come up in discussion with some of you, or leave you wondering.  Those issues are closed. That is all that I have to say to that.\par
My gift caused my little sister Ana grief and pain.  I want to apologize publicly to her for that; I have apologized privately and she accepted my apology.  She took me in when no one else would, when I had no other place to go.  Thank God you cannot get cocaine on the Ranch; this is a safe place and the old dream of a refuge city has come to be in me.  This is my refuge city.\par
Ana will tell you I got the looks and the talent.  She got neither.  She now thanks God for that, because she was not tempted and she did not fall as I did.  She worked through a great many issues and was willing to take me in.  She is supportive.  I was always a beast to her, but she is truly my sister in Christ and not just my half-sister in the flesh. Thank God for forgiveness and the strong woman that Ana is.  Of the two of us, she has the greater gifts.  And I mean it. "If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am nothing." Or sing, for that matter.  Ana loves. Something I am beginning to learn.  I have a long way to go.\par
And now we come to it. Give me a minute. \par
  Allow me.  It is the decision of the Council of the Twelve, and please hold your applause, that Ellen Ripley Bread be allowed to sing in our choir.  Do not applaud.  We hope that she may learn to use her voice for the glory of God as she formerly did. PLEASE. Do not applaud or we will revisit this decision, not on the basis that she is not ready, but because YOU are not ready.  Thank you.  \par
I will be singing in the choir, not doing solos, as part of the team, and singing in such a way that my voice does not stand out.\par
 I know that many of you thought highly of her when she was in her former life. It is the decision and will of the Council that she be treated equally with any other member of the Ranch, as we have no celebrities and no nobodies.  We are significant - we are celebrities in the sight of God and nobodies because of our sins. We are \i simul justus et peccator\i0 , in the old words so familiar to us.  That pertains here.  Ellen will be called Ellen, not by her stage name of Ripley, not by her full name.  You will not applaud her or treat her like a star. She has been instructed to report to the Council anyone who seeks her autograph or expresses infatuation with her or otherwise brings up her singing career and her past or othewise makes her uncomfortable.  Leave her alone to follow God, as you would anyone else.  Because of her background we must state clearly that we have a new choir member, and we implore you to treat it as simply that. Nothing more.  She has the protection of the Council and I am speaking with its authority here and now. Heed me.  It will be difficult for some of you, but the old sinner is dead. The woman before you was dead and is alive again, a new creature, and has come home to Christ and to Father God. For that, you may now applaud.\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 