{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Segoe Print;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;\red155\green0\blue211;\red0\green176\blue80;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 10:00 AM Tuseday, June 26.   2016  Office of the Episcopal-Presbyterian Bishop of the Midwest, Kansas City\b0\par
Although he had studied the picture of Deem Futz so that he could recognize him, Aaron could never remember what he looked like.  The impression was of a face that simply could not be described as having any outstanding features, totally unimpressionable. You almost would think there was no photograph there until you put your finger on it and traced your eye down to the picture. Then you could make out the face.  There seemed to be something slightly sad - that was not the right word.  Elusive.  Aaron could no more identify what the emotion was than he could get a fix on the face.\par
Aaron had been told Deem was like that in person: forgettable, without impression. People walked into him without noticing him.  In one of the classes where attendence had been taken, a professor had stared at his seat in silence. "Ah, there you are," he had finally said. There was something about him that made him almost invisible, unnoticable.  \par
Aaron, having read the resume, the letters concerning the subject, the transcript and other data that had been assembled, including the application, closed the manila folder and placed it before him on the mahogany desk, which was clear of everything except the interwoven fingers of the man opposite him."And you think he is the right fit for Nicholls. sir?" Aaron asked the bishop.\par
"It may be more that Nicholls is the right fit for him.  I know this Deem Futz.  Never has anyone had more trouble, more grief, more anguish, yet remained alive and managed to finish seminary."\par
"He was the goat of his class. There has not been a goat in fifty years, and here he is."\par
"An unfortunate phrase, an antique phrase, one that I would not like to see used again. Let us say that he managed to pass all his courses with a minimal amount of margin?"\par
"Let us so say.  For lack of payment he was almost expelled three times."\par
"Yet the finances came through."\par
"Sometimes late. Past the limit. It was only the mercy of the seminary president himself that accepted the payments."\par
"But there it is.  Mercy.  The payment was made.  Some would prefer to have someone as a pastor who has been through what Deem has been through than someone who has never been touched by the fire.  And here he is, despite forty-six - count them - forty-six interviews, some of whom told him they would wait for next year rather than accepting him. Incredible.  And he has not given up."\par
"He was brought up on disciplinary charges. Conduct unbecoming a seminary student."\par
"And he was cleared.  I was on the board that cleared him on one of those occaisions.  It seemed to us he had been framed, almost supernaturally, if you will."\par
"He has watched every other student in his class placed, and he is the last one."\par
"Yet he perseveres."\par
"A rational man would say that God was calling him to do something else."\par
The bishop looked long at Aaron, thought of what he had been through.  He and his wife had buried five children on the mission field.  Now his wife was insitutionalized here, broken by grief.  Aaron could learn a lot from Deem, he thought privately.  And then he responded, "Down in Nicholls they like perseverance. A Marine thing.  I want you to take him down there and have the elders interview him.  Let me know what happens.  I am not going to force them to accept him - that church has been notoriously difficult, and they would call my bluff, if bluff it is, because we have spent all these years carefully not defining the exact limits of episcopal  authority over and agains that of the elders of a congregation, so that I do not wish to to that now. Not after what we went through with their previous pastor. No. Nor do I want the presbytery involved.  I want to present this candidate. I think Nicholls could be good for him, and he could be good for Nicholls."\par
"Aren't you afraid they will eat him alive?"\par
"No.  From what I have seen, there is none of him left, only Christ.  But He is there as in an earthen vessel. "\par
"You then have a high opinion of him. With all due respect -"\par
"No. I have an assessment.  You will recall that before I accepted this office I was in Michigan, and Deem was in my congregation.  He went through hell.  Most of it was totally undeserved. He is a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief.  It does not take much to see that. You will see that when you meet him."\par
\par
Aaron Muis stood in the bus station where he hoped he would be visible from where the bus from St.Louis would disgorge its passengers. He stood out from the crowd not only because of his height but because of the old-fashioned three-piece suit and tie he was wearing, with his shoes highly polished.  They were his most expensive shoes, ones he only wore for special occaisions, and the bishop had suggested he wear them. Aaron was holding a neatly-made sign with Deem's name on it in large black letters, one large enough that he needed both hands.  The station was crowded and a lot of the conversations were in Spanish.  A few people glanced at the sign and looked away with puzzled looks as they passed.  The right bus arrived and the passengers began walking past him.  A group of four passengers, none of whom was Deem came up to him. One stopped and looked at the sign.  He was even taller than Aaron with curly hair and an earring and a large tattoo - definitely not Deem. And strongly in need of a bath.  The other three were in conversation.\par
"Hey, buddy, thats your sign," the man said, and turned to someone that Aaron had not noticed. Sure enough, there was someone there.  Aaron was not sure, but it could have been Deem. He was in conversation with the other three. He shook hands with everyone in the small group, who walked on, and there was Deem Futz, shockingly thin, dressed in ragged clothing.\par
"My name is Deem Futz," he said, and smiled.  Something was wrong, Aaron thought. Was he ill?\par
"Aaron Muis."\par
"I am very pleased to meet you," Deem said, and vomited on Aaron's shoes.  \par
\par
Two weeks later Aaron was still fattening up an emaciated Deem Futz. He had not eaten since he had left Michigan, except for some soda, beef jerkey and candy, which he had vomited up on the bus and then again on Aaron's shoes.  The smell had not come out, and Aaron had wound up throwing them away, as he could not in conscience wish them on anyone.  They were made by an Epper colony that specialized in leather work and he had valued them highly.  He would probably never have such a pair of shoes again.  The strangers on the bus had been willing to share food with Deem, but he had felt too ill.  Back in Michigan they had thought Deem had left weeks earlier. He had had no job, no money, no income, and after his last candidating trip didn't feel up to contacting anyone - the letter inviting him for an interview had arrived while he had been slowly starving alone in his apartment.  The local Epper community had come to view Deem as a Jonah: bad things happened to him and around him, although he could never be called the source of the things. So he had not been missed.  He had sold most of his theology books and pawned most of his possessions.  There was a box in Michigan to be shipped to where ever he wound up.  \par
Worse was his spiritual condition.  He was in no shape to meet with the elders, except as a subject of pastoral concern.  The bishop put Deem under Aaron's care.  This was a valley of shadows, but the Lord would lead him through, Deem said, and smiled weakly.  He had a fever and was in bed. Had he missed God, he wondered.  No, he would say a minute later in his fever.  And people would wander in to comfort him, and strangely he would wind up comforting them.  Aaron was mystified by this, as he overheard some of these conversations and there did not seem to be anything special Deem did.  But people liked to talk to him.\par
"He gives me hope," one housekeeper said.  How, Aaron wondered. He did not see it.  He was in charge of Deem for the moment and had to maintain a certain reserve. Perhaps that blinded him.  But it was remarkable.\par
"The elders of Nicholls want to see you, Deem." The bishop looked sadly at the still-emaciated figure sort of hunched into a corner of the leather armchair in his office  alternating clutching its cup of cold whole milk and leaving it on a corner of the highly polished desk, where it was leaving a series of overlapping rings.  The bishop saw this, frowned, and then paused, long enough for a car to go by.  "They know you are a candidate, and they do not consider sickness an excuse.  You would be their pastor in sickness and health, so, in their view, they want to see you. They say it is time to fish or cut bait."\par
"God's will be done," Deem said weakly. "Whether I live or die, i will serve the Lord."\par
"That's the ticket," Aaron said, once again trying to encourage him. It sounded strangely hollow, Aaron thought later.  But it had not been a rallying cry as much as resignation. Or had it?  Aaron tried to figure it out, later, but got nowhere.  There was something here that was beyond hiim.\par
\b 12:30 PM July 6, 2016\par
\b0 Aaron had no idea how everyone in the residency had gotten to know Deem, and they all wanted to say good-bye.  The man had been asleep a lot of the time, but nonetheless he knew everyone by name, and seemingly their spouse's names, along with parents, children, dogs, cats, and in one case a pet parrot.  They all wished him well, they all were sorry he was going, but they understood. It seemed he had had a stream of visitors, and it irked Aaron that it seemed to happen more in his absence than when he was around.  But by temperment and calling Aaron was more detached than most people. And experience. It had not been that long since he had come home.  Change the subject. What, Aaron wondered, did they see in him?  Aaron hardly knew any of these people even by name, yet Deem knew them all, from the cleaning lady to the canon law expert.  As they climbed into the car Deem seemed to sink into almost a torpor, as if his illness had returned.  Aaron was wishing Deem would do whatever he did, with him, but he did not.  Deem understood the relationship was professional, remote, cordial, and there was no room for intimacy.  Aaron had to be ready to be both shepherd and butcher, and could not be either too distant or too close. Deem also had gotten a number of letters from Michigan and from West Virginia, and had spent a lot of time writing back, when not praying or reading his Bible.  Aaron thought he would have better serve himself if he spent a little more time learning about Nicholls and the situation there, but kept that to himself. If Deem hung himself, so be it.\par
The drive south from Kansas City had been hot, even with the air conditioning going full blast in the old Toyota.  The July sun was beating down unmercifully on 71, or I-49 as it was now known, as they left the southern suburbs of Belton and Raymore, passed through Peculiar - Aaron smiled at the name and Deem gave a little chuckle, the first Aaron had heard. \par
"Routes J and C. J.C.  He is here. A nice reminder."\par
Aaron thought of telling him that it just happened that Missouri had those two routes coming together in Peculiar.\par
"Sometimes I look for the little signs, the reminders that God is here. And he seems to have left his initials. J.C.: Jesus Christ."\par
Aaron found himself with nothing to say. He had been through here numerous times and had never noticed that.  It was trivial.  \par
They passed Harrisonville, bypassed Archie and crossed the Nicholls County line and then through some more hot,  dusty miles, through dull looking ranch and flat soybean fields, monotonous, broken by the odd tree line along a creek. The land had flattened out.  What was it about Nicholls County, Aaron wondered.  It isn't really as flat as at looks.  It just felt flat, summer and winter, springtime and harvest.  But the trees had turned brown in the heat, with their shriveled dead leaves, and the fields looked burned brown.  Now the heat flattened it even more.\par
Deem gave a little grunt.  It was good, anyway, that he was alive enough to be bored before the elders ate him alive. Aaron responded, with "Can't miss it -If you come to the Bates County line, you've gone too far and you'd best turn around at  Adrian. It's the only place you can get off in Nicholls County, past the Kikker place.  But you can't miss the Nicholls exit. It is the only thing for miles. Only thing in the County. Nicholls is the only town." Only, only, only only. Sparse. Desolate. Lonely. These were the words that lay behind that \i Only\i0 .  Why of all the places in the world was there a pastoral vacancy here? An Epper Church, not to mention that strange place west of it. But who would want it?  The land and the people...Aaron had had to turn around at Adrian more than once, having missed the exit, and turn back north to find it.  There was something about the highway, as if those who had built it had done so in a way to induce highway hypnosis. Despite the coffee he had fortified himself with, Aaron still fought to stay awake.  Deem dozed on and off.  He snored.  There were pleasant snores.  This was not one of them and soon Aaron was irritated enough about it, and ashamed at his irritation, that he had no chance of falling asleep.  God moves in mysterious ways, he thought. Deem's coffee in his hand fell on the floor suddenly - Aaron would have had to swerve into a truck to intercept it.  Well, cars clean up.  At least it wasn't vomit.  He glanced again at Deem with a little worry, but the vomiting had ceased that first day, with some decent food.\par
Nicholls County.  Of the counties along the straight-line Kansas-Missouri border with their flat and monotonous low hills and lines of trees, this county was the flattest and the dullest by far.  Perhaps God spent all the good ideas for how a countryside should look elsewhere, like in the Alps, and laid this out to demonstrate divine abandonment. It was almost but not quite deadpan flat.  \i   \i0  But it wasn't, not quite.  There were little ridges at long intervals, and cottonwood-lined creeks.  At least Aaron thought they were cottonwoods. Someone had told him so. But their leaves were burned up and their creeks were dry now. It had not rained here since before a January snow, and this was July.\par
Deem opened his eyes again, and the land looked the same as it had for the last umpteen miles. Were they even moving?  He looked at Aaron imploringly, as if he could do something with the land.  Aaron was growing fond of Deem despite the need for a professional detachment.  At least that snoring had stopped.  He was there to see that Deem made it to his interview, to where he was staying, that he met the people he was supposed to and got to where he was supposed to go. This could be another painful rejection for Deem and probably would be, and Deem would go elsewhere and Aaron would never see him again.\par
"I never have caught your last name, Aaron."\par
"Muis."  Deem must have heard it a hundred times.  \par
"That is Dutch for 'mouse."\par
"Well, yes."  Under normal circumstances he would have mentioned that his parents had been sent to America in the 1930s, along with some cousins, and that their settlement had taken in Jews and other undesirables in what the Eppers referred to as the Stand.  The settlement had been annihilated, along with many others, and there was only rubble from where they had used it as artillery practice.  No one knew what had happened to the people, whether shot or gassed. The Eppers of Holland had been wiped off the face of the earth, and all attempts to find them had failed. Likewise across northern Germany, Poland and into Russia, where the heart of Epper civilization had been.\par
"Well, there is a contradiction. Not much mousy about you." That snapped Aaron back to the present.  Deem was referring to his height and width, and in the Dutch manner, he was both of these and putting on weight.  In a few years his square jaw would disappear into his chins and his thinning straw-blond hair would reveal a bald pate.  Probably, though, he would grow a beard at some point. Definitely, if he became an elder.   In any case his chin was a goner. But Aaron took it as a compliment. He was wondering if Deem dared insult him, and decided no.\par
"I expect to have whiskers someday, as an elder," Aaron said lightly.\par
"Ah, yes.  You are a deacon now, correct?"\par
"That I am.  At your service, as you know.  Are you done snoring?"\par
"I would like to think so. Much traveling through the Midwest, and now this.  Didn't we go through here once or twice already?"\par
"No, it just looks like this."\par
"It doesn't look like where I grew up."\par
"It's not the Appalachians, that is definite.  Berkeley Springs, West Virginia, right?"\par
"Well, close.  I grew up in an Epper settlement not far from there. South.  Mostly  apples and pecans. And of course cabbages and potatoes.  We had farm raised fish, some dairy cattle, enough for the settlement, and honey. I am not a big city type."\par
"Yes.  As you know, I have studied your file.  And I will be reporting to the bishop everything that happens.  I cannot influence this interview in any way except to get you there."\par
Deem nodded.  And in that nod there was a flash of insight.  Deem cared. He really cared about people, and there was almost a reversal of roles here:  if Aaron ever needed someone to talk to, somehow Deem would make the list.  In fact, he wished he could bend the rules. Now where did that come from?  Aaron rebuked himself for his lack of impartiality.\par
"Well, I hope we can be friends after this.  I am sure this is difficult."\par
"Yes. It is difficult."  Why did he have to have a reserve around Deem? Aaron now saw something of what the bishop had seen in Deem.  He cared.  Aaron resolved to go no further with the conversation than this, but at some point in the future he would go find Deem, wherever, and have a discussion.  Such thoughts, Aaron rebuked himself.  And the hardcore elders of Nicholls would not care if Deem cared.  They were looking for other things. They were hard men in a hard land.  Tough.  All Marine Corps vets. Their last pastor had even been named Hartmann. He'd left, under circumstances Aaron wished he knew less about.\par
"This won't be easy," Aaron told him, as they left the interstate. \par
"Never is," Deem replied, with a surprising amount of determination.  Aaron wondered where that came from.  There was more to Deem than he had seen.\par
They made it up the exit and turned west onto what was now Main Street, although there was some distance from where the highway had been relocated when they made it an interstate to where the town began. At that point a big sign. or rather, group of signs, trumpeted what town this was in a landscaped area with some very dry looking evergreens and a brown lawn. . Aaron pulled over to take a look at it, to help him size up the place. There was a very large Eagle Globe and Anchor, as large as the "Welcome to Nicholls" sign. Rotary. Scouts. Knights of Columbus. 4H. "Home of the Bulldogs." Yes, the famous Bulldogs that seldom were less than second in every division they played in.  He tried to be proud of them. Nope. Not even interested. He knew none of them.  The Marine Corps was big here.  Deem had never been in the Marines, scouts, Rotary, 4H, and of course not in the Knights of Columbus. There was a fenced-off caboose in the park that some kids were trying to figure out how to get through the fence to the caboose.  They ran off when they saw Aaron looking at them. \par
"Marines are big here, I guess."\par
Aaron looked at him.  How had that never come up?  The town was named after a commanding general of the Marines, maybe the first or something.  Deem was not a vet. This interview was going to be suicide.  Maybe they could leave immediately. But Deem had no alternatives, none at all.  Aaron had to see this through to its bitter and certain end.  \par
Main Street shot straight west, wide and bounded by one and two-story brick buildings like the main streets in a million other small Missouri towns, with plate glass windows and awnings .  Most of the buildings  were occupied, and most of the vehicles were trucks: pickups and half-ton trucks, and  there were a few horse trailers and truck-trailers with farm equipment, Deem guessed.  Some of the trucks had water tanks. He looked at them curiously as they passed:  his home settlement still used horses and considered them more reliable than fancy machines.  You could plow or harvest a muddy field with a horse that a tractor would sink into.  And people had huge farms that they needed to have that big so that they could pay for the equipment to farm it with. Deem's uncle used to talk about that: Epper farms were small enough and varied enough that crop failure was almost never heard of.  A few people looked at their car as they drove by, carefully assessing them.  Theirs was the only Toyota, in fact the only non-truck he had seen since leaving the interstate. There were not even any SUVs. Just trucks, some full-bodied, some with extended cabs, but all trucks.  They were all clean, too, despite the drought. Denim. Everyone was in denim, despite the heat. There were some straw hats, but it was mostly baseball caps. They wore them funny, he thought, pulled lower than most people do. Sunglasses under the caps.   A lot of people also seemed to have sidearms.  \par
"I almost feel naked without a weapon," Deem told Aaron,"Strange.  Peer pressure, I suppose." \par
"No shoot-out at the interview.  And they will not see if you can strip a rifle blindfolded and put it back together."\par
"Everyone is armed."\par
"Yes. This is Nicholls."\par
 "And every truck had a gun rack on the back window."\par
"Yes.  And never expect a weapon will not be loaded.  They think an unloaded firearm is more dangerous than a loaded one, because then people will think it isn't dangerous. I think it is a misdemeanor to walk away from a weapon without loading it and putting the safety on.  But never assume the safety is on and working, either.  Never point a weapon at something you do not intend to hit.  And they will make it clear to you that they will draw and fire if they think you are going to point a weapon at them."\par
"Nice place."\par
"Can be.  But you have to know the rules.  And never take the key out of the ignition of a vehicle here - another misdemeanor.  I'm not sure what the thinking is on that one, maybe they will need the street cleared or commandeer it for combat.  A lot of the people here never seem to have left a combat situation."\par
Deem had a deer in the headlight look,  like a missionary parting the weeds and discovering a lost tribe that was amazed at everything about this newcomer. The next minutes would be perilous: would they cook him and eat him or welcome him as a brother? \par
Aaron said, "You are among friends, Deem."  Deem sighed and the feeling seemed to leave  slowly.  But it was around some corner somewhere.  Aaron decided not to poke, particularly as the interview was less than five minutes away.\par
There were no chain stores, no franchises, no big box stores, not even a catalog store in town. Nicholls had fought all that, and won.  Nicholls people did not want, never had wanted, and never would want to pay money that got sent out of town to some owner somewhere else. And you paid cash.  As far as  Aaron knew there was not one ATM in the town.  You used checks only when you had to.  You went to the bank when it was open.  The Bank of Nicholls did not have a web site.  There had been a commotion when the bank had been sold to another bank in the turmoils after 2008, but there was also no where else to go, and the people who worked there had remained the same, mostly, and they were Nicholls people, mostly.  A few bank people came in from out of town, but Nicholls was Nicholls, proud of its traditions and determined to keep them.  The upper management from out of town came in and left without any connection with the people.  The cars were expensive that they parked in their lot behind the bank, and with their suits and ties they spoke of a wealth that was not Nicholls.  Nicholls was dressed in cotton in the summer, casual cotton, bought at the clothing stores in town.  Anyone wearing clothing bought elsewhere would be met with a sense that they had betrayed Nicholls.  The town stood together.\par
The bank had tried to put in a drive-up window a few years ago. Aaron had heard  that had not gone over. You should go into the bank. You saw your friends, people you knew.  None of this stuff where convenience is more important than people. They looked out for each other and that would have gotten in the way. There had never been a drive-in anything in Nicholls. Not a movie theatre nor an eatery.  You walked, if you could.  Keeps a town together. Cars separate communities. Exercise is good. \par
Aaron told Deem story after story of Nicholls and its ways.  There was the outdoor gun range where you saw your friends, and then the inside one, when the weather was bad. Deem would be expected to fit in, to be a member of the town if he could.  Every other pastor had been a Marine officer, including the last one.    \par
"Look like what you've heard?"\par
"Yep."\par
"In some ways they are separated from the rest of the economy.  You can expect the offering to be completely in cash. It is bad form to give a check.  Very bad form. It's ok if you are sending money out or getting it in.  Some people are surprised the town is doing as well as it is. You will be paid in cash, with a hand-written pay stub.  You pay your bills here by going to the various utilities and paying cash. No receipt, either. It's on the basis of trust.  Something missing from much of our society today.  The Great Recession had no effect here.  Maybe they know something."\par
"That's the restaurant," Aaron said, and pointed.  It was a storefront, walk-in, with a deep covered porch and plate glass windows with booths.  A man sitting alone  inside put down his cigarette and stared at Deem in a way that Aaron, even though he was driving, felt.  It was a cold and hostile stare, and aside from that the man had no expression. He had a worn look about him, like he had seen too much. Short hair, weather beaten, like many here. He saw them looking at him and gave them the finger, then turned his back on them.\par
"You have some real types here." said Aaron,"the good and the bad and the mixed, like anywhere.  But it is a small town and the whole Marine thing ramps it up. PTSD is a real issue, and has been, going back a long time."\par
"PTSD: post-traumatic stress disorder?"\par
"Right.  The combat wounds that are the worst are those between the ears in someone that is otherwise healthy.  You will find that a lot here."\par
"I wonder: how do they find the grace of God?"\par
"Some do, but then it is of course that grace finding them."\par
"Of course.  And some, it seems, cut themselves off from grace, from any possibility of grace."\par
"That is kind of self-destructive."\par
"Sometimes I get the feeling that here you can see people who have become drunk on their sinfulness, in a way I have not seen anywhere else.  Even, I fear to say, people that God has selected for destruction."\par
"That man in the restaurant window: I mean, I cannot really say for sure, but there is something about people like that that makes you think there really are people walking on the face of the earth whom God has selected for destruction."\par
"Sounds like reprobation to me."\par
"It does.  I have never experienced the sense that there are some people actually marked out for destruction like I have here.  The Nicholls church has a task cut out for it - seemingly to see if there are some who look that way who actually will be saved, despite that."\par
"Does it happen?"\par
"It does.  Something about those who are hot or cold are preferred to those who are merely lukewarm in life.  Those who are passionately cold against God become the most passionate for Him.  Those who have sinned much and are forgiven much are ever so much more grateful than people who have hardly any sense of their own sin, who just sort of mince through life without any real deep sense of their own pain or need of God."\par
"Blessed are those who know their need of God."\par
"By the way - they are well aware you are not a Marine.  They will not expect you to understand Marine Corps culture - but at the same time they will expect you do."\par
"Do you understand Marine Corps culture?"\par
"No. I am not a Marine either.  And Nicholls Marine culture is not exactly Marine Corps culture.  They have created their own little culture here."\par
\par
They drove past the end of the brick-fronted buildings.  They passed several blocks of one-story frame houses, each shaded by trees with shriveled leaves and carefully tended but dried grass - there was a no-watering order on -and turned right on Henderson.  After a few blocks of these houses with wide porches all around and trees and each with a garden in back, and most with a US flag and a USMC flag proudly flying, they came to the church, a white frame structure that could only have a single aisle, its peaked roof sterotypical of small rural churches in this part of the country and a white bell tower without a bell.  It could have been anywhere.  \par
 Aaron sensed Deem was getting tense.  He worried that Deem had given up maybe and was just going through the motions. If Deem was interested, he would have asked questions.  But was he just going through the motions?  He had never asked one question about Nicholls, or the church, or why there was an opening.  This was a problem.  Mentally Aaron marked it in his column for "reasons why the candidate should not be placed."\par
Deem loudly gritted his teeth at the sound the wheels made as Aaron unhesitatingly turned into the parking lot and carefully parked.  That, actually, was a good thing.  That kind of tension meant that he was not as apathetic as Aaron thought he might be.  How, Aaron wondered, could anyone grit their teeth loudly.  Deem looked ok.  As they got out Deem bent over.  Aaron hurried around the car, concerned that he might be sick.\par
"They do a great job on the gravel: it's been impeccably maintained, rolled solid without any holes or ruts."    Why was he talking about the gravel?  \i  \i0 Deem straightened and looked around at the six fullsized pickup trucks in the parking lot.  Each had a gun rack across the back of the cab. Variations on "MARINE" and the Eagle, Globe and Anchor were on every  truck. Six elders, six trucks. This sounded right.\par
Aaron checked his watch. They were was only five minutes late, which was appropriate protocol throughout Epperdom.  You didn't want to be on time and you wanted people to have a chance to be ready. Deem now looked at the church again, a rather severe looking white clapboard building  - the paint was immaculate, and there were no spider webs to be seen - with a basement entrance on this side. They went down the steps to the basement door .  Deem was small and the building seemed to lean over him, imposing itself on him, crushing him, as if to say. Who are you, little man? Go away.  The main door, the one Aaron had usually used, was on the other side.  He could see the church sign but it was facing away from him. The oven-heat was hitting Deem as he walked in the sun and he was covered in sweat by the time he got to the door.  It was newly painted and completely free of cobwebs.  The whole town was overly clean. No chipped paint anywhere. No trash on the ground. Not a weed. Nothing out of place anywhere.\par
Aaron knocked. After a silent minute, in which Deem seemed to fight the urge to simply turn around and leave as fast as possible,  Aaron smiled and he opened it silently and they entered the cool darkness, which was refreshing.\par
Aaron stood back and motioned for Deem to go forward. He would observe.\par
They had a large room here.  There were tables in this basement where they held class.  Some of them were up.  They had a spotlight on the speaker's rostrum, or rather directly in front of it.\par
"You Futz?" asked a gruff voice sitting somewhere in the shadows.  They have been waiting, these elders, and he was late. All that was in those two stacatto words.  You should be somewhere ten minutes early, Aaron recalled with a shock, here.   By Nicholl's time he was fifteen minutes late. How could he, Aaron, have forgotten.  They were of the mindset, he recalled, that there was a lotta work a man could do in fifteen. Ruder'n all get out to keep someone waiting, let alone the elders whom he was meeting for a pastoral interview. Not a good start. Not at all.\par
"Step into the light. Let's look at you...sir."\par
Deem could not see them at first in the silence that followed, as he was in the light and they were in the shadowy darkness out there, unknown to him.\par
"In the light," someone else said. "And are you Futz?"\par
Deem stepped into the light more fully, as if he had not been before, and replied.\par
"Yes, sir," he replied.  Aaron winced inwardly.  He had not known Deem's voice went up an octave when we was nervous, and he clearly was.    Aaron, standing to the side, saw more than Deem could.\par
The men stared at his new suit, as Deem's eyes adjusted he stared at their short hair and their beards, their overalls, their calloused, meaty, powerful hands, their eyes.  Some of those eyes said they had seen things they never, ever talked about, memories that they stuffed deep inside. Those hard eyes were not friendly in their examination of Deem Futz. It seemed to Aaron that they regarded him as they would someone who washed out of Boot Camp the first day, or worse.  Frowns were exchanged among them. They were solid, hardworking, strong, established people, all at least twenty years older, if not thirty, than Deem was. Their wrists were thicker than Deem's neck.  Aaron wished he had gotten Deem more fattened up and that they had spent time in a gym or something.   The normal age for an Epper to become an elder was sixty, but that was not always observed.  Each looked like they could break him in half with one hand, even the ones who looked like they had passed the eighty year mark. And like they really didn't care whether they could break him.  He was irrelevant, except there he was being a nuisance. Somewhere in the silence, away in the dark depths of the church, was a tiny sound, either a clock ticking or an insect or water dripping - Aaron was not sure which - that normally you would never hear.  Only in awful silence do you hear such things. Aaron could hear Deems toe-knuckels crackling: he had  curled his toes up inside his shoes.\cf1\par
\cf0 They didn't bother getting up. The nearest frowned when Deem extended his hand to shake.\par
One fellow, whose bulging right bicep proclaimed in blue, "Semper Fi",  suddenly spoke. "I am Sands, session clerk. Welcome." It seemed sincere to Aaron, but he wasn't sure.  There were nods, but they were unenthusiastic. What kind of a pup is this? seemed to be the consensus.   \par
"Thank you," Deem replied.\par
"Let's skip the introductions," someone said.  There were murmurs of agreement.\par
There was another awkward silence.   It looked like Deem hoped it would end soon, and he could go off somewhere and be miserable.\par
"Well, we have two other candidates to look at. You'll be preaching Sunday. By the way, with all respect, people are on time in this town. Best to remember that. With all due respect. By coming this late you answered our biggest question. All. Due. Respect. Sir.  And frankly, with you, we are just going through the motions."\par
With that they explained, there  was work waiting, and they left Deem there. They each carefully said their goodbyes to Aaron and went out the door.\par
Aaron waited silently, without expression, watching Deem for fifteen seconds. Deem was looking further into the basement, towards the stairs.  He moved his hand slightly, as if waving. "You might as well look at the church," Aaron told him, and went out the door.\par
The six elders were standing in a circle. They turned when they saw Aaron and frowned. \par
"Is this some sort of joke?"\par
"What do you mean by this? What does the bishop mean?"\par
"Is this a slap in the face or something? We need a pastor, not a - not that."\par
"Bearing."\par
"Among other things."\par
Aaron had expected some hostility.  To his surprise he found himself backing Deem. "There is more there than you realize, although perhaps you cannot see it. You do understand that the bishop thinks he would be a good fit here?"\par
"Well..." There were murmurs,"then I guess we better give him full and honorable due diligence so we have a solid case.  Until and unless, the bishop will ask us why we turned him down after a five minute interview."\par
"Precisely.  Not that anyone would call that an interview. What were you thinking?  Think of what you just put him, through.  Pretty rude, I would say.  I would say your hospitality, and your tact, were a little lacking."  'Tact' was a Marine leadership word.  Several of these men had been Marine officers.  \par
"Tell you what, Deacon Muis.  We will each meet with him at length and see what we think, longer than in one quick meeting.  Will that satisfy you?"\par
"I would not be so concerned with satisfying me as I would the bishop.  You understand I am his eyes and ears on the ground?  And this will also involve the presbytery?"\par
There were some looks exchanged. \par
"Thank you for pulling our heads out. We will do due diligence before we make a decision. He is staying with Kitten tonight.  We'll set up some times and each draw up some questions we are concerned about. Ok, guys?"\par
"Sounds good." \par
"The bishop will be here Sunday.  I will be bringing him down. As well as a few men from the presbytery."\par
"Preaching can be the make or break deal."\par
"We  expect good preaching.  That is important in an Epper church."\par
"I don't see that in this candidate. Not from this meeting."\par
"It wasn't much of a meeting, was it?" Aaron interjected.  To his surprise he was angrier than expected.  He was supposed to be professionally detached, even in the most appalling circumstances.  Doctors remained calm even when they sliced open an aorta, or so he had-\par
"I am looking for good leadership."\par
"Roger that.  We need someone with experience, someone who can put this church back together after what we went through with Pastor Hartmann.  Bearing."\par
"Deacon Muis, you cannot tell me that he exhibited bearing in our little, granted, short meeting today."\par
"You surprise him with a spotlight and treat him like a prisoner?"\par
There was a silence, then, "We want to see what he is made of."  There was agreement all around.\par
"Please.  What do you think it looks like you people are made of, based on that? You are elders and you behaved like that."\par
"Doctrinal soundness is a make or break with me."\par
"In reviewing his transcript I don't see potential there.  He does not seem to have a good grasp of theology."\par
"I don't see theological grip in this candidate. That is necessary for good preaching and counsel."\par
"Sound financial management is essential."  Deem was broke.  Did they know that?\par
"I cannot see anyone going to him for counsel."\par
"I don't see wisdom in this candidate.  He is young but it is needed now."\par
They went on for a few minutes.  They wanted a pastor who could do everything, console everyone, who was all-wise, all-knowing, who ran on two hours sleep, full of energy and seemingly without any flaws or weaknesses.\par
"We want to see the two other candidates, you know, before we make a decision. We don't even have any information on them."\par
"The bishop decided you should evaluate this one and not comparison-shop.  Did you know you people scared off every candidate but three?"\par
"It's not that we have a bad church or anything."\par
"No."\par
"I would just like to point out that traditionally we have had a pastor who has been in the Corps. I would hate to break that tradition."\par
"I had enough of that with Pastor Hartmann.  We need a new way of dealing with things."\par
"I second that.  That is why we are looking at this guy. Besides, a church is in trouble if it goes without a pastor for too long.  If this pulpit is vacant too long, people will leave and this church will close.  A shame after all these years.  This is the only Protestant church in town. It used to be the biggest. Now-"\par
"Pastor Hartmann is gone.  But following up on the Marine thing, can you tell us if either of the other candidates is a Marine?"\par
"Very funny.  That would automatically make you reject your present candidate. But neither is. And I will tell you that no one in the new graduating class at the seminary has a Marine background.  And there are no experienced pastors out there with a Marine background who are looking for a new position.  If they were, frankly, they would give Nicholls a pass."\par
"We sort of have a black mark after what happened with Pastor Hartmann?"\par
"Well, yes," Aaron attempted to get some control back," I think it would have been possible to handle the whole thing in a worse way than you did, but that possibility is theoretical. You fired him, upset your congregation, provoked the bishop, annoyed the presbytery and got unfavorable attention all the way up the ladder.  Be glad we do not reprimand sessions.  You guys have a reputation, and it is not a good one."\par
"Well, we will take that from you, seeing as how we have to.  But we stood together and have no regrets."\par
"I know.  I think your hand was forced in a number of ways and, really, from what I know, and I know more about it than you do, at the time you acted the best you could on the information you had."\par
"What could we have done differently?"\par
"I think, and I am not alone in this, that you could have brought in the bishop and the presbytery much earlier.  And you could have waited until some of the facts were clearer. Yes, Pastor Hartmann had to go and you get full credit for acting.  But you could have waited, as I said."\par
"But-"\par
Aaron held up his hand in a way that conveyed authority. "I don't want a rehash of the whole thing.  I want you to understand that you are in no way in a strong position to demand the candidate of your choice, or in fact a candidate you like. Let me make that clear."\par
"But-" \par
"We have had multiple discussions with the bishop - you, me, His Episcopacy - and you know that what I have said here is in line with it.  Let me make it clear that you must, if at all possible, accept this candidate.  I think you will come to accept him.  He has the makings of an excellent pastor.  That is why, despite everything you have seen and see, he is a candidate. Some think he is the right fit for the job.  Good day, gentlemen."\par
There was a silence that Aaron could feel behind him.\par
"I guess we have to make sure this son of a *** wishes he never heard of Nicholls, Missouri," someone said quietly.   \par
At that Aaron turned back and rejoined the group.  "I heard that.  I wish I never heard it.  Just let me make a comment, and that comment is that there are two kinds of small groups.  One kind can take the strengths of its members and develop decisions far better than any one in the group could ever make on their own.  The other kind - you can see where I am going. I don't think any of you would have treated Deem this way, the way you have treated him or the way you plan to, on your own.  You would have been hospitable one on one. You seem, to be blunt, to be very blunt,  to have descended into a mob mentality.  You have been making poor decisions.  You know that.  My question to you is how you can make better decisions, because..."\par
"I accept responsibility for what I just said." this was Elder J. Pfingster. "You are absolutely right. I apologize to you, Deacon Muis, and to my fellow elders. It was uncalled for.  Please forgive me."\par
There were murmurs of agreement. "In this case I think you may have to rely on the judgement of others to make a decision, in humility.  Each of you I know is humble and walks with the Lord.  Ask yourselves, gentlemen, one more time: what happened and what do you need to change."\par
"We are not blaming Pastor Hartmann."  This was Elder Opp.\par
"No."  This again was Elder Pfingster. "We said we would put an end to the blaming."\par
"I think you are right, Deacon.  We did this to ourselves."  This was Elder Sands. "Accusation is not the correct method to get anywhere here."\par
Aaron smiled. "The first step in healing is to admit the fault."  But the other three elders were stone-faced.  "Good day, gentlemen, I need to find the candidate.  Elder Pfingster, I believe he is staying with you."\par
"Well, yes," said Elder Pfingster, "And in all fairness, Deacon, you know that of the six of us I am the most opposed to his candidacy.  I can be the best friend he ever will have, or the worst enemy regarding his candidacy."\par
"I would not have it any other way," Aaron smiled at all six, and left them talking.\par
\par
 Around the corner, at the front of the church,  a few people were waiting to meet the candidate even in this heat.  There was a bead of sweat going down his back that he wished he could deal with, maybe by taking off his suit coat and scratching, but the word 'bearing' came to mind.  Aaron understood a few people would meet Deem at Pfingster's, where Deem was to spend the night.  Was Deem  inside the church?\par
"Hello, Toby," Aaron said.  Toby had been a protege of Pastor Hartmann's.  He had come back shaken but saved from Iraq and Pastor Hartmann had taken him under his wing, had taught him how to live as a Christian and was teaching him to lead.  Toby was thinking about college and them seminary and it had not come together yet, and Pastor Hartmann had been teaching him how to lead a church, how to think and live like a Christian, and now Pastor Hartmann was gone, leaving a big ugly mark behind him and deep pain in Toby. Aaron had talked to him Monday. He seemed ok now.\par
"Looking for the candidate?" a teenaged boy sitting on the steps asked Aaron.\par
"Yes, yes I am," Aaron replied.\par
"I guess he's a no-show. Don't blame him.  They will probably close this church, don'tcha think?"\par
Aaron looked at him. "The candidate is here, certainly not a no-show,  and I hope they don't close it. I am Deacon Muis, from the Bishop's Residence. I brought the candidate down and I am now looking for him.  He was going to look over the church and meet me out here."\par
"Oh," the boy stood up. "Adam Bread, at your service!  The candidate had not come out these doors.  I am sorry if I said something inappropriate."\par
"Well, we must guard our tongues, eh?"\par
"Why aren't you the pastor?"\par
"That is an impertinent question."\par
"Sorry."\par
"I think it is a good one," a grey haired lady who had been listening said. "You know this town, being as you have been down here a lot and you know the situation."  Toby, quiet and to the side, seemed to also think it was a good question.\par
"Ma'am, I mind a number of churches and the bishop is pleased with what I am doing in my role. If he wanted me to be a pastor, he would ask me.  But neither of us is of the opinion that that is what I should be doing. But thank your for your confidence."\par
"Not at all, not at all.  Can you tell us something about the candidate while we are waiting for him?"\par
"You will have to ask him.  Did you read the write-up that was passed out Sunday about him?"\par
"Well, no.  I didn't make it here Sunday.  We have been visiting the Clinton church.  How long was he in the Marines? Is he retired from the Corps?"\par
"I can tell you that he never served in the Marines." \par
\line "Oh my, oh my, oh my, oh my," she said, and began fanning herself. "It is so dreadfully hot and I should not be out in it much longer - I have been waiting. I am going to go home now. Nice meeting you, Deacon Muis."   \par
There was a rattling sound from the doors a minute later.  The doors shook.\par
Toby pushed the door open. "They open in."\par
"How silly of me," Deem said.  Aaron, trained to maintain his composure, hid his shock.  This was not the same man of a few minutes ago.  There was a sense of peace and confidence  about Deem.  Aaron made a mental note to ask what had happened in those few minutes.\par
"Hello," Deem said, "I am Deem Futz."\par
"It is a pleasure to meet you," Toby said with some hesitation. \par
"It is a pleasure to meet you as well," Deem returned.\par
"Hello," Adam said, getting up again.  The others were all gone. "Is it true that you were never in the Marines?"\par
"That is true."\par
"Then how can you expect to lead Marines?"\par
"From the front," Deem replied. He smiled, a challenging smile.  For the first time, Aaron decided there was real leadership in Deem.  Men would follow a confident, decisive leader. Bearing.  And Deem did it with a simple smile. Amazing.  Aaron made a note to himself to practice smiling like that later, in front of a mirror. It might come in handy, but it was also completely sincere and unforced.  It was clear to Aaron that Deem was unaware of it.\par
"People are talking about that. I thought you ought to know.  Every pastor here has been a Marine, as far as I know.  Pastor Smith was a Marine.  He was pastor here for like forty years. And before that, I don't know.  And Pastor Hartmann, he was a Marine's Marine.  I hope you hold the church up to the high standards that he did."\par
"That would be unfortunate if he did," Toby broke in.  Aaron was surprised at this.\par
"Why's that? This is a church for Marines by Marines."\par
"When Pastor Smith died there were more members in the Nicholls Epper Church than there are people in Nicholls.  People came from out of town.  Some even from the Ranch.  People came over from Kansas and up from Butler and Audrain and over from Clinton and down even as far as Grandview and Lee's Summit. It was a happy church.  Now less than fifty people are attending, on a good Sunday, and the bank has the building. This is the old Epper church we are meeting in that otherwise would be closed or a museum or something."\par
"Narrow is the way.  Jesus calls us to die on the hill of Calvary for Him, that is what Pastor Hartmann always said. Christianity is not for sissies," Adam said, looking hard at Deem.\par
"Jesus came to call the sick, not the healthy and the sinner, not the righteous," Deem replied.\par
"Well," Adam said, looking at him,"I hope our new pastor upholds the values of our community and our traditions.  That is what people are saying.  I best be going."  A second later and he was up on his bike, and thirty seconds later out of sight.\par
"There are things wrong with Nicholls culture," Toby explained,"It used to be that DIs were glad when a recruit came in from Nicholls. Now they hate it.  It is like this town is in a time warp of just after the Korean War or something in their idea of what it is to be a Marine, and before you are a human being, you are a Marine.  If you aren't a Marine, you're not a human, is the undertone.  The Marine Corps has moved on, but Nicholls has not.  I was a protege of Pastor Hartmann - I still find a lot to admire in him, although I also see what is wrong - and he sort of pushed that into overdrive.  Oil on the fire.  You, sir, if you take this position, will face that."\par
"That is fine," Deem said serenely.  Aaron made another note mentally to ask Deem what had happened. Something had.  He noted something else: \lang1033  Deem has a real ability to enter into someone else's emotional world and they feel it,  that he is on their side.  Unusually so. Either he was cut out for the pastorate or counseling.  It had been amazing to watch him with these two people.  All these things would go into his report to the Bishop, and that report would be reviewed by the presbytery. \lang9\par
"Well," Aaron said, "I am afraid I need to get you over to Pfingster's, Candidate Futz."\par
\par
"So what happened in the church? Tell me about it," Aaron said as they backed out of the now-empty parking lot.\par
"That was not much of an interview," Deem said.\par
"Tell me about it," Aaron replied.\par
"You were there. No questions.  Just a 'don't be late in this town'. Six of them seemed pretty hostile. The only exception was the younger one - the guy with the longer hair and his beard was shorter than the others."   Aaron listened carefully, with concern.  He would have to write this up.  The man was clearly hallucinating.\par
"Deem - there were only six men there besides you and me."\par
"What do you think, Aaron," Deem asked him.\par
Here we are at Pfingters'."\par
The driveway was full of cars and people.  Kitten Pfingster was pacing across the little stone path like a lion tamer.  Aaron parked across the street.  The crowd was subdued and it was clear Kitten had been angry.\par
Aaron got out.  A boy told him, "Whatever you do, stay off his lawn."\par
Aaron nodded and started up the driveway.  People in this town could be particular about their lawns, even in a drought and a no-water order.  He turned and saw Deem cross the street and cut directly across the lawn, a big smile on his face and hand outstretched to greet Kitten Pfingster.\par
"Did you bring him, Deacon Muis?" Kitten hollered on seeing him.\par
Aaron pointed at Deem, now in the middle of the lawn.  Kitten suddenly saw him and almost jumped.  Deem was now realizing that he was the only one on the lawn and that there had been some uproar about the grass.  Deem's smile faded into a look of horror as he realized his faux paux.\par
"Nothing for it now, Candidate Futz," Kitten growled,"Best you just beeline over to me. Grass will grow again."\par
There were murmurs from the crowd. Aaron caught some of them:"Don't look like no Marine to me....Is that it? ...Where did they get him? ... I know Nicholls is like the end of the world but whoa....That is not Old Man Hartmann, that is for sure....Nor Pastor Schmit, either..."\par
Aaron made sure he caught up to where Deem was coming off the grass onto the sidewalk.  Somehow the crowd was thinning out.  Here was Elder Pfingster, fit to be tied, and Deem, like a leaf ready to be blown away.  And there was Marigold Pfingster, his wife. She was talking to Deem but clearly about her husband. \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx900\tx2070 "Fool men - they will tell you they are fine until the minute they drop dead of half a dozen diseases they should have gone to the doctor for."\par
"And women will tell you all their diseases and never let you have a word in edgewise."\par
"Is that so?" she said.   Aaron would have thought he could have reached out and burned his finger on the laserlike glare between the two.\par
"No - a man would rather just drop dead than listen to all that."\par
"Well, Mr. Pfingster, I have been babying you these sixty years and learned how you speak without words."\par
"Well, nothing is wrong with me," he shot back.\par
"Well, here is Deacon Muis.  I expect you want to introduce - introduce our candidate for the pastorate."\par
"Yes, yes I do."\par
"I met him already," Elder Pfingster growled.\par
"You weren't introduced," Aaron replied as evenly as he could.\par
"Deem Futz, this is Elder Pfingster," Aaron said.\par
"Yep."\par
"And his wife, Marigold," Aaron said.\par
"Why Mr. Futz, it is a great pleasure to meet you."\par
"Thank you, ma'am."\par
"I fear our hospitality has been less than would be desired." Here she glanced at her husband.\par
"You are welcome, Deem. Make yourself at home," Elder Pfingster said,"but I am an old man. You will have to manage your own luggage. Let me show you your room."\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1  Despite that, the old man bounded up the steps and then up the inside stairs at a pace that Deem and Aaron could not match.  Deem was weak enough he had to take the last few steps slowly and sit at the top of the stairs for a minute.  Elder Pfingster's face was blank.  Aaron told them he would get Deem's luggage.\par
"You do that," Elder Pfingster said,"I don't want this fellow falling down my stairs."\par
\cf2\par

\pard\cf0\f1\lang1033  \f0\par
  \par
It was late that night that Aaron sat down and typed out the letter that had been forming in his mind.  He shook his head again at the lack of an internet in Nicholls that would prevent the transmission of the letter.  It was difficult to write, but he felt it was his duty. \par
\par
\i\f1 Your Excellency, and the Presbytery,\par
\par
It is with reluctance and a heavy heart that I must relate to you what our Candidate, Deem Futz, told me today.  After you read what follows, you can make your own evaluation.  Personally I recommend he be withdrawn as a candidate and be given a thorough psychological evaluation.  The following is what he told me happened from when the abrupt meeting with the session ended until he stepped outside.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\lang9 "You might not have seen him - he sat a little apart and farther back. He seemed to have kind eyes, I thought, and a slight smile. He seemed a little sad. But it wasn't sadness.  I could not place what it was."\par
"You're sure you saw him?"\par
"Yes. But he wasn't there after the meeting.  I he went out up the stairs. He turned and waved."\par
"I would have seen him, Deem.  It wasn't that dark. I saw you waving your hand."\par
"But you didn't see him? That is odd."\par
"So you explored the church?"\par
"Yes.  I am sure you know it, but this is how I saw it.  Let me tell you what happened, and then you can draw your own conclusions about the seventh elder:  the basement doubles as a fellowship hall, where we met, and currently has folding tables and folding chairs set up in neat, orderly, if not overly precise rows.  There are little marks on the floor where the table corners should go.\cf3  \cf0 There is a mop closet with the water heater and furnace, and two restrooms, both immaculately scrubbed and clean. There is a large locked closed that says"Decorations" on its sign, and "Decorating Committee Only" in stenciled letters."\par
"You will find out about the Decorating Committee soon enough," Aaron commented dryly.\cf3\par
\cf0  "I went upstairs, hoping to meet that elder. There is the foyar and the sanctuary and a little prep room off the back next to the baama.  No office. No nursery. \par
"The office was always in the manse, before they built the new church. But go on. Sorry for interrupting."\par
"Not at all - until I get to the good part. I appreciate the perspective.  But there is a new church?"\par
"Well, yes.  They built it some ten years ago but Pastor Hartmann took out a mortgage on it, and now the church cannot pay the mortgage - one of several reasons he is not here that still has an impact. But please go on. I'll try not to interrupt again."\par
 "Everything was scrubbed to an inch of its life. There are pictures of men in uniform everywhere you could put a picture, young men, not smiling, alone, in uniform, in front of a flag. All of them have a little brass plaque with a name and a rank and two dates and three letters. I looked at them and there were only two sets of letters: either it was KIA or MIA. I wondered what that is all about.  . I wasn't sure I wanted all those pictures up, if he got the job.  Maybe he would ask someone if anyone would mind if he took them down - that is what I was thinking.  The whole place was like an ad for the Marine Corps. Sheesh. My honest reaction."\par
Well, Thomas J. Spinkster, 1 Lt. USMC 1920-1944 KIA, I said softly, looking into the eyes, what would you think of that?  Lt. Spinkster gave no answer, but I became aware of an immense, solemn sadness, a  dignity that seemed to hang about the quiet church. The Lt.'s picture was in the middle of a group of other men with the same dates. Well, I said, I might as well go. I turned to leave but I found myself going into the sanctuary instead. I had previously walked through it.  You may think I am overly imaginative or fatuous, but I was drawn again, that this was a place of worship, and I explored it more spiritually than physically this time."\cf3\par
\cf0 "Meet Every Challenge With Your All," read one banner. Another, "Be Strong and Very Courageous, for the Lord Your God is with You Wherever You Go - Josh 1:9" read another, and "Suffer Hardship with Me as a Good Marine of Christ Jesus 2 Tim 2:3".  There was that quiet sadness again, and more pictures, like a gathering of warriors, like Valhalla. But they were not pagan Vikings. Or the Communion of saints. I had an eerie feeling of being watched: not an evil feeling at all, as if it was haunted, but by good people. "We finished our race. We gave our all. Will You?" he could read in the eyes of Edmund Spence, Cpl USMC, 1900-1918 KIA. There was a picture of a couple, smiling, in civilian clothing , against a tropical background. 'John and Angela Bourne, Missionaries 2015, KIA".  He remembered that incident as it had happened while he was at sem: they had been taken hostage on the mission field and killed. KIA, then, was 'Killed in Action'. . Oh Lord, Deem prayed.  I have been a fool. Kyrie eleison. Christe eleison.  This church had paid in blood for its right to exist. This town was - well, he, Deem Futz was first of all unworthy to be here, but this answered something in him that this church, this town, was really alien to him, and there was no way he could ever measure up or even understand them.  There were other pictures of missionaries, other military pictures.  The walls were covered with them, all of them looking out, the missionaries with smiling, relaxed faces.  All of them had the dates completed.  All were KIA or MIA.   Missing in Action?  \par
I sat down, three pews back from the front,, in the silent church, in the stillness, in the heavy silence.  In the remote past, I remembered, I had powerfully experienced the presence of God in a silent church. I am not boasting, Aaron, or claiming some mystic or spiritual power, just trying to tell it as it happened.  But now waves of feeling from my youth were rising in opposition, when I had read too much science fiction. The cold, hard, uncaring vacuum of space. The wheeling, uncaring stars. The cosmic emptiness. The lack of meaning of life.  Futility. All was vanity. What meaning could any of this have?  What purpose? What goal was there that was worth pursuing? What treasure besides a God who was silent and absent? As a deer pants for water so my heart yearns for Thee, O God, I prayed. Why would men replace heaven with a cold hardness of space, and exchange God who loved them for an apathetic cosmos that woud indifferently crush them? Why do people turn from Him Who will not turn from them? And yet, how far, how far off God could seem, so far away. God I know you care. How about a little in the feelings, in the perception, in my mundane reality?\par
"Blessed are those who do not see, and yet believe."  I heard himself saying.  And he felt the tension between the cold hard unfeeling vacuum of dark space and the brightness and joy of heaven.  They were at war in me.  I had fought this battle before, and here it was again, but stronger and clearer than ever before.  And then the heavens seemed to fade away, leaving the cold darkness within me.  Just a sense of failure. I had walked down the wrong road, a miserable road; it had cost me everything to get here, and it was not worth it.  I wondered where I had gone wrong.  They would never, ever, accept me, even as a person, let alone as a pastor. Mistakes and failures from the past reared up, one after another, telling me that there was no going forward.\par
Silence.  Outside even the crickets had given it up. \par
The church door opened and there were footsteps.  Someone was entering the church. I  really wanted to be alone just now.  Alone with my misery and the fact that God was silent and seemed to have abandoned me in my hopelessness and misery. I would get over it, someday. I fought some bitter feelings.  \par
The footsteps came closer .It did not sound like Aaron. I pretended not to hear them.  I became aware they had stopped at the end of the pew where I was sitting. Someone was standing there. I turned and looked, the "Go away" already formed with my mouth and my breath drawn in to say it.\par
It was the seventh elder, the one with the longer hair and the shorter beard and the kind eyes.  I don't remember anyone with kinder or gentler eyes. I  felt like he had known this man a long time, although I could not place him.  \par
"Mind if  I join you?"\par
I invited him with his hand, and turned to face forward. again. I didn't really want to talk. The elder sat as if he had made a calculation as to how close he could sit to me: he was neither so close  that my own personal space was being not violated - and at the same time, he was not  too far away. I noted his amazing sensitivity and discretion to myself.  He was eminently approachable, with a look like he had endured great pain but that was behind him now, and now he had compassion for others.\par
Neither of us said anything.  But I could hear the elder breathing. It was a soothing, regular, sure thing, like it had begun before the foundation of the world and would go on afterward: confident, enduring.  An easy and a light breathing.  Nothing would every be too hard for it. Ever.  There was a strength in it.  The man would not leave and I did not really want him to. I  found he was glad he was there.\par
It was an odd thing, this.  It was like this living, breathing, warm human being sitting within arm's reach, by his very presence, made all the thoughts of isolation and abandonment and the cold hard emptiness vanish, run away and hide.  There was meaning and purpose and a charity and a joy and a laughter behind the silence of the universe. It wa silent, I thought, because it was trying not to laugh.  Was he quoting Chesterton? Not sure. I had a hunger for God because God had made me hungry for God, because God intended to fulfill that hunger and not just frustrate me.  There was a purpose.  It was not chasing rainbows in search of a pot of gold at the end.  It was the rainbow as God's promise, and God was capable of fulfilling the promise, and would.  How dry I have been.  Now, not so dry. There was reason for hope, and so there was hope.  Whether I got this position or not, life would go on. God was still in control.  If he wanted me to have a suburban DC church, he would get one. I said to myself that God's plan was the best and such a church would just be rubbish if it was not what God wanted.  All things were behind me. Time to press on and forget the past.  All moments had come to this moment: the future and the past were both far away.  There was only this church, and the two of us in the moment, both silent.  Time seemed to stand still in the ever-present. That meeting and the future were both ten thousands years remote. There was only the now.\cf3\par
\cf0 It was like I had had an enormous bundle tied to my back - my past - and somehow, without saying or doing anything, that elder cut the ropes. It slid off into the past.  That was then. This was now.  There was a future, though I did not see it or know it.  I could go on.  It was like I could breathe again, deeply, breathing in hope and life.  The acrid fumes of defeat and despair were not there. \par
As we sat there, silent, I felt encouraged. I was not alone, ever.  Somehow this elder reminded me that God, even when silent, was always there, always active, always aware. I turned to say something to the elder about how he appreciated him being there.\cf3\par
\cf0 I WAS alone.  How or when the man had left, I did not know. I must have either been concentrating or I fell asleep.  Odd, that.  But this left behind a different way of looking at things, something that I could go on with. Now it was like he had long ago been at the end of a rope and had let go. I felt, oddly, like he had been caught. \par
I stayed some minutes, hoping the elder would return.  He did not. I wondered if it was a dream.\par
I looked at the pictures looking at me. As I sat in the presence of God and this cloud of witnesses I felt himself hardening, rising to the challenge. Determination rose in me to do this, to not walk away defeated. How could I, after this?  I was no longer unable to win. I was only able to win. A strange thought, a strange feeling, a turning point. I knew things would be different.  Life had changed.  Not only "going on" but living.  I felt like I could breathe again, like joy was possible, like I could sing.\par
I looked around the church one last time and left, this time through the front door. To my surprise there was no lock.  Where was the office? There must be another building with the office. I had told him the office was in the manse.  I will agree there was a lot to take in, but he should have known that. \par

\pard\f1\lang1033 Then Deem stepped outside.  I will admit his demeanor was much improved.  Whether this was a catharsis or a hallucination I am not sure.  In any case this incident must be considered.  \lang9 I write with concerns about Deem's sanity, although I cannot doubt something happened psychologically or spiritually.  Deem's imagination is far more vivid than Aaron had imagined, if it was that.  Deem seems to have experienced some sort of catharsis, there is no doubt to that. But can he judge what is real and what is not? This seems to be worrisome. Perhaps a psychological examination would not be out of line?  I write  this down to report it formally to the bishop and the presbytery as clearly and impartially as I can remember Deem telling me.  Perhaps he should also be evaluated for charismatic sympathies. While I am aware of the discussions current on this subject, I do not know that it is the right time to introduce a charismatic-leaning pastor, let alone this candidate if he is one, into Nicholls. I submit this for your consideration.\lang1033\par
\par
Your servant and that of Christ\par
\par
\f2 Aaron Muis\par
\f1\par
\i0\par
It was two thirty in the morning.  The light was on in Deem's room and the door open. Deem was asleep at the desk, his Bible open to Hebrews 11.  He had copied the Greek out onto a sheet of notebook paper, circled a few words and scrawled something about anarthous nouns.  There were a few randown words as well.  Aaron hoped it had been a personal Bible study and not sermon preparation.  He stared at Deem, with the urge to wake him.  He needed his sleep, but he also needed to write a sermon for Sunday rather urgently.  But he was not supposed to interfere.  He quietly left and went to bed in his bedroom.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\lang9\par
}
 