{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9  "Well, dear," said Mrs. Hook,"we have an opportunity here.  As you know, the motto of the Ranch could be summed up as 'If anyone will not work, neither let him eat.'\par
"Well, I do work in the choir..."\par
"Yes, but that is not enough, I am afraid.  You have been here long enough, and joining the choir indicates that you plan to stay..."\par
"It's true, I don't consider myself just a visitor.  I want to be part of the Ranch."\par
"We work hard, very hard.  What can you do besides sing?"\par
Ellen had no answer.  She spent a lot of time with God, but that was not the sort of thing Mrs. Hook was fishing for.\par
"I think you need to experience a loving Christian family."\par
"Well, I would like to get married someday. I think."\par
"I would like to see you become more of a whole person before that happens."\par
That hurt.\par
"There is a family - you have mentioned Isaiah Poller, their oldest - who is in need of some assistance. Kati Poller has just given birth to her fifth boy, and they also care for her aged grandmother, who is handicapped.  You would assume the role of a \i jongedamme\i0 , a 'second mother'.  Kati would teach you many useful basic life skills, regardless of whether you ever get married. It would certainly show you what it is like."\par
"So...you want me to be a nurse, a nanny, a servant-girl..."\par
"I don't think you understand the opportunity here.  The opportunity to serve and learn, from one of the most loving families on the Ranch.  You would be part of a loving family. And we are all servants of the one true King."\par
Ana had left the Ranch, having grown tired of some of its peculiarities.  That meant she was the only one left in the trailer, and it was likely the Ranch wanted it for other purposes. Space  was valuable.  \par
"I think it would be the best thing for you."\par
"I respect your opinion.   I really don't see any other options.  I can't sew, for example. Or weed. And I don't have the strength to be a ranch hand.  I don't know that any of the menfolk would be interested in a woman who...."\par
"Can't establish and run a Christian home?"\par
"Yes, it just sounds so 1950s."\par
"Yes it does.  There are things we have lost as women.  Someone can have a professional career and be a woman.  But then, what college or training do you have towards that?"\par
"None.  I am not even particularly trained as a singer. I just can sing and read some simple notes.  I don't have any money for college, and even if I did, I don't know what I would study. And I love the Ranch, so I want to stay here.  I will accept this, I guess.  Only....I wish it was something with more, more...."\par
"Status? Fame, Glory? You know what that did to you the first time."\par
"Yes," Ellen said softly. "Very well, I will be the handmaid of the Lord, the handmaid of the Pollers, the lowly servant girl." She half-smiled. "Maybe I can teach them Do-re-mi? I can be a regular Maria von Trapp!"\par
"Kati Poller would not like that at all.  In fact, as a \i jongdomme\i0  you are to be silent unless spoken to, except when handling children.  And you should particularly not develop a relationship with Mr. Poller.  This is a good institution, but there are always temptations when a young woman is introduced into a household.  You will be there to learn what a good loving family is like.  Do things their way and it will go well.  Insist on your own way it and it will not go so well.  In the old days the mother of the house would beat the \i jongedamme \i0 when she felt the young woman deserved it.  You will not get that from Kati Poller, but she will have high expectations.  You can consider her your lord and master, your drill instructor, and your guardian and friend.  Lois is still friends with Kati, and probably will be forever. There will be less of the lord and master business as you learn, and she will trust you more and more.  She would be a great friend, something you can look forward to."\par
"Lois?"\par
"Their former \i jongedamme\i0 , a great one, now preparing to get married in the next few weeks."\par
"When do I go to their house?"\par
"Go back to your trailer and pack your things and wait. Kati will - no, I will come get you and take you to the Pollers."\par
\par
Kati Poller discovered her new \i jongedamme\i0  knew nothing about keeping house, absolutely nothing.  She asked Ellen to crack some eggs into a bowl, and ten minutes later discovered Ellen still searching cabinets for the egg opener, as well as having pulled out her cookbooks and leaving them scattered around the kitchen. Ellen was made to put the books away \i immediament\i0 , which was a word she quickly grew tired of.  Kati showed her how to crack an egg and watched her crack the others, and gave her step by step instructions on baking a cake, mostly from her rocker while she nursed little Hosea and attended to her other children.\par
"You do not have a microwave! How can you cook?"\par
"You will learn to cook. I will teach you. And for the moment I am not interested in the observations of MY \i jongedamme \i0 about what I have in MY kitchen. Please mix the batter faster. I can tell from here you are doing it too slowly."\par
Ellen bit her lip and stirred, although her hand was soon sore. Lord and master was right. Under the almost-tart tongue of Kati Poller, who was a perfectionist and expert in how she thought the kitchen, and house should be run, Ellen soon learned many skills.\par
She almost lost it when Kati told her to clean a freshly-killed chicken that was delivered to their door.  But Kati persevered, despite her tears, and the chicken was cleaned and in the pot, the feathers and inner parts and everything going to particular places, because nothing was ever thrown away.  It was a long way from the glory of the stage, a long way indeed from having everything done for you, she thought.  But she wanted such distance, however repugnant she felt it was.  \par
She would fall asleep quickly, sore from the bottom of her feet to her shoulders, her back aching.  Sometimes she had night-duty with little Daniel, two, in addition to the work during the day. And she helped Oma, who thought they had been cheated in getting her as a \i jongedamme\i0 , and with the tart tongue of the old, did not hesitate to dress her down, everything from her slowness to sloppiness to her looks, which seemed rather forward to Oma.  Ellen took to wearing a kerchief instead of going bareheaded, and that helped. "Show your submission, girl," Oma would tell her,"That is the way.  I used to beat my \i jongedamme,\i0 , beat her daily, until she no longer complained. Later she thanked me.  I will tell Kati it worked.  None of this frivolous patience and slow change.  You need a sound thrashing.  that would set you right."\par
Ellen hated being told to be submissive, but there it was. That was the role.  There was no other path presently for her, so she endured it.  And Oma was exacting, and the children demanding, and there was no end of work, ever.  If she messed up, somehow Kati was always there at the time, and she would be corrected.  Her mistakes were becoming smaller with time, anyway.\par
Then there was the getting caught in a lie, accidently using sugar instead of salt in a recipe, and saying she had done it correctly.  It came out in the cooking, and everyone knew.\par
"We need to be able to trust you," Kati told her. "How does lying help? We could have fixed it, but not when we thought it was sugar..."  Ellen was very aware of her lack of knowing Greek, her lack of self-discipline and self-control, her difficulties in relationships with others, with basic honesty, and her tendency towards depression and tears. Take away the singing and what was left of her?  Whatever it was, was lacking.\par
  There was no pedestal for her with the Pollers.  Kati told her she just about had it with her except she realizes this is the best thing foe Ellen and that her relationship with Christ is real, so a lesson in patience for Mama is not a bad thing.  It is actually hard to take, because the congratuations-you-want-to-be-treated-like-a-normal-person is no longer anything other than expected, and there is work to be done. \par
"I am a modern in so many ways," said Ellen.\par
"It is alright.  We are building a Christian woman, which is much better." Kati replied, and smiled.  "You will lose all that baggage, it is too heavy to carry.  I am determined to reform you.  I love you too much to leave you the way you are."\par
 Isaiah was dragged into helping her.  She learned to peel potatoes from him, in a role reversal. He taught her to string beans, set the table, and host of other things.  She also got Daniel-at-night duty.  The two year old hated waking up wet in the middle of the night,a nd would strip himself, sometimes soiling his crib, himself and the floor where he would throw stuff.  He would need a bath, new clothes, and his room cleaned, often at 3AM.   So Ellen was exhausted and tired from her new role, which seemed endless and mundane.\par
"We will be hosting the new pastor in Nicholls tonight," Kati told her,"so we must scrub the place to the maximum!" It was already cleaner than a surgical suite, Ellen thought, but all the boys got baths and were checked.  Those deemed too dirty were scrubbed again, as was every corner of the trailer complex they called the Warren, a mash-up of trailers to have enough space for everyone.  There was extra cooking, cleaning, ironing and polishing of all exposed metal in the place.  Ellen received the news with silent weariness.\par
"I have heard he likes potato salad.  You have made it already, so practice will not hurt." Ellen nodded in her merciless submission. She was getting used to it, anyway.  She was learning to choke down the urge to rise against the authority vested in Kati, and those urges were lessening.  Kati was giving her life direction, and there was some measure of fulfillment in reading children stories, cooking a good meal, or leaving a scrubbed floor or a bathroom shining. It did not compare with the applause of a crowd, but was much sweeter.\par
\par
Deem counted twenty-two dinners in a row in which he had had potato salad.  Tonight dinner would be with a Mr. Poller, whom he had met once, briefly, the General Superintendent of the Ranch, whom everyone thought was a most capable fellow. Probably another restrained, boring, solemn meal with people who were politely eating with the new pastor and didn't want to commit to a building fund or an offering or whatever other financial  need he had come with.  He didn't have one, and after he made that clear when eating with people, it generally went better. They lost use of the church building and were now meeting, free of charge, at the funeral home.  That was a present pain but actually improved the financial picture for the church.\par
By arrangement Deacon Pol met Deem by Melanos' corral.  There was space there to park, and Deacon Pol guided him to the Warren, which was not very far at all.  The porch appeared newly scrubbed. Across it lay an enormous dog, sound asleep. When Deacon Pol stepped onto the porch, he woke up and gave them a bleary look and went back to sleep.\par
Deacon Pol knocked, and instantly Boomer was up and awake. "Never ring their doorbell. Boomer does not like it." By that time Boomer was standing off, at attention, ready, but not growling.  Neither was his tail wagging.  \par
Jeremiah answered the door. "Hi, Deacon Pol!"\par
"Hi, Jeremiah. I've brought your company."\par
Jeremiah shut the door, leaving them outside and yelled "He's here! Deacon Pol and that man from town!"\par
A minute later the door opened again. This time it was Isaiah."Sorry about that. Little kids. Mama is nursing Hosea and the \i jongedamme\i0  is cooking. Papa is not home yet. Won't you come in?"\par
They did, and Deacon Pol shook Deem's hand and left.  Deem knew where he was with relation to the car, so that would not be a problem.\par
The trailer was one big room, with the kitchen in a U at one end, then a dining area with a large table, and couches in the far end.  The rear trailer door opened into another trailer.\par
In the living room area of the trailer were four boys, looking identical except for diminishing sizes and ages. Isaiah spoke.  "These are my brothers: Jeremiah you met, and Ezekiel and Daniel. Daniel is not housebroken. He poops on everything.  Hosea is with Mama.  He just got born."\par
"No!" broke out from Daniel, two. "No! No! No!" \par
"Now, Jeremiah, be kind," said the \i jongedamme\i0 , coming out from the kitchen   with a bowl under her arm that she continued stirring.  She immediately returned to the kitchen.  Deem had been instructed to pay as little as possible to the \i jongedamme\i0 , because that was the etiquette.  She also needed as few distractions as possible, as they would work her very hard. That was part of the tradition.\par
"That was Isaiah. Not me," protested Jeremiah.\par
"It was me!" Isaiah shouted in the direction of the kitchen. "And sorreee- you are right, it was unkind.  I won't tell guests how he poops everywhere."\par
"No!" came again from Daniel, who started crying. Isaiah picked him up and he settled down. "No!" he said again, but without any force to it.\par
"Children, children, children." This was from the other person in the room, who continued,"You should be horsewhipped, that is what I say. Horsewhipped! World is going to hell in a handbasket, with you acting like that in front of guests!" She was a skelatally thin person, thin and small, lost in her wheelchair, her scant white hair bound up in a bright red and orange kerchief.  Her skin was translucent and you could easily seen all her veins.  Deem got the impression she was not long for this world, and knew it. She looked carved from bone. Her hands trembled when she moved them.  One clutched a handkerchief.\par
"Pastor Futz, just call me Oma. I am Kati's grandmother. It is an honor to have you with us for supper."  She spoke slowly, clearly and distinctly, precisely pronouncing each word as if each required careful handling, each emphasized.\par
"It is an honor to be here, ma'am."\par
"Years ago I knew some Futzes, back in Maryland. good people.  I thought the name had died out.  But they were over on the Delmarva peninsula and I was south of DC, so there was not a lot of communication then."\par
"They might be relatives, I do not know."\par
"Johann Futz? And his wife Naomi?"\par
"I had a great-uncle named Johann, married to a Naomi.  I think they lived in Delmarva."\par
"Well, I suppose they are long dead.  Most of the people I knew are. Well. That settles that. Do you speak plattdeutsch? When I was a girl, that is what we spoke mostly, but the older generation, it was all they spoke. None of this English. It was my birth tongue, the plattdeutsch.  I remember when the service was always in that most comforting language. But it has been a good while, decades now, perhaps half a century since we used the Liturgy in plattdeutsch. I would hope that you would conduct the service in plattdeutsch? No. To be honest, sir, I am a little disappointed, and that is not surprising,  but that is to be expected.  Time passes.  I will be with the Lord soon.  I am looking forward to it, as I believe my work here is done. When you bury me, please have the prayers read in plattdeutsch.  That would be the least, and quite reasonable, You will bury me, I hope?  I want a proper Epper funeral, in plattdeutsch, with a proper Epper pastor.  They make too much of these elders, as far as I am concerned."\par
"If I have the honor, I will do so. I will find the plattdeutsch prayers for a funeral and pray them over you."\par
"That would be wonderful.  With all due respect, sir, it would be better, though, if you could find someone who can read them rightly, with the correct pronounciation. A native speaker.  If that were not done, I don't think I want to bother dying. "\par
"I don't think you have a choice."\par
"No. I do not.  The Good Lord has His reasons that I have lived so long, I suppose  so I could bury all my friends and most of my family...But that would be my last wish to a pastor, that the prayers be said at my funeral in proper plattdeutsch.  That was done for my parents, my brothers and sisters, and my husband."\par
"If it is a comfort to you, I will do what I can."\par
"And I know you will get it done. You are a good man.  God bless you for serving in the pastorate. Many are called, but few are chosen. "\par
Mrs. Poller came out. She was thin, but not as thin as her mother, and she had a shawl over her left arm and shoulder with a baby under it somewhere .  She had the rosy look of young motherhood. She was quick and graceful in her motions. The family resemblance was very strong between mother and daughter, and then with her grandsons. All had a healthy, happy, sharp-eyed and very aware look about them.\par
"I apologize for not meeting you.  I was occupied.  Hosea is a hungry boy. Are't you? She peeked inside the shawl and there was a burp from within. "This one has just about nursed non-stop since he was born. He is in a hurry to grow up, I think. He is a week old today. So young, I will keep him covered.  Germs, you know. I hope you do not mind."\par
"Oh, not at all, ma'am. I understand."\par
"I am Kati Poller. I trust you have met everyone?  Please forgive me for not shaking hands. This one is so very young."  \par
"Yes, he has met everyone," said her grandmother,"One would think you have no ears. The boys have been heard throughout the county." She coughed. You will excuse me, I am not well.  I will take dinner on a tray, daughter.  Granddaughter. See that that \i jongedamme\i0  gets it right. She needs a thrashing, that one. Well, good night all." And she slowly pushed her chair a foot, and turned her head. "Isaiah, would you?"\par
"Not a problem, Oma," Isaiah said, and he slowly pushed her out of Deem's sight, back to her room. "Watch the couch. Watch the doorway, it bumps so. Watch the wall. You are a good boy Isaiah, but not so fast. Eyes open, Isaiah. To the left, now the right."  Deem guessed her room was some way off. They called it the Warren because it was a set of connected trailers.\par
 Kati smiled, attempting to overlook her grandmother's tartness. "Well, you must be famished. Please sit here until my man gets home. I must check on the dinner preparations.  Please excuse me."\par
Deem checked for Daniel droppings on the chair, just in case, and found none - in fact, the place was the cleanest he had ever seen anything, and sat.  Immediately the four year old was there with a picture book.  Jeremiah was there because of that, and because two of his brothers were there, so was Daniel, lined up in a row. The three brothers stared at him, head to foot, up and down, in silence, as if they were at the zoo or something, and the four year old silently shoved the book at him. It reminded Deem of feeding peanuts to an elephant at a zoo.\par
"Do you want me to read it to you?" he asked the four year old. What was his name? Zeke.\par
"No, you read it. I gave it to you," replied Zeke, and, duty done, he wandered off. Daniel followed. \par
"If you have any trouble with the words, let me know,"  Jeremiah kindly offered, and was called away by the \i jongedamme\i0  to set the table.  There was something familiar about her, but she was mainly facing away from him. Deem was trying not to laugh. He turned to the book. "One Fish, Two Fish" was old hat to Deem, and he had not seen it in a long time. Dr. Seuss had been a favorite and there were warm memories of early childhood, hours of Dr. Seuss on the lap of an older person, talking about the pictures, reading, almost singing or chanting sometimes. Children were another world, an innocent one.  He sighed, thinking of the angry face-off with the Decorating Committee only two days ago.  This was like quiet waters, peace.  The trailer seemed a happy and tranquil place, orderly and restful. A minute later and he might doze off looking at this book, he thought.\par
A minute later there was a sudden enormous bark from beside his ear - he was sitting next to the porch, after all, and there was a big dog on it not two feet from him, and the door opened. A large man ducked and entered the house, first his arm, then his shoulder, then his head, then the rest of him: Deem  had the sense of toothpaste being squeezed into the room. He seemed mainly muscle, and although he was attempting a solemn expression, given his guest, Deem guessed, there was a twinkle in his eye and laughter was not far away, ever.  Here was strength and confidence.  Here was Papa Poller, and his kids rushed to his knees and he picked them up, one by one.  He smelled Daniel. "Kati, this one needs a change," he told his wife as he bent down to kiss her, and the order was passed to the jongedamme, who hurried out of the kitchen, grabbed Daniel and off she went. Kati and Isaiah assumed the kitchen duties, and an enormous hand grabbed Deem's and shook it. Deem sensed enormous strength and resolution, but the grip was calibrated to normal, not crushing.  Deem thought Mr. Poller could pulverize his hand and break him in half without effort, if he chose. \par
"Pastor Futz, it is good to see you again. I hope you were not kept waiting long?"\par
"No. Your Oma and children kept me company." He waved the book.\par
"I see.  Good reading there," he said, and pointed to the book still in Deem's hand.  He let out a good-natured and enormous laugh to shake the house, and everyone else could not help laughing for the joy of it. "My boys have excellent taste in literature." And he laughed again, for the joy of it.  It was not at all against Deem, who laughed as well.  If this man laughed at a wall, he thought, you would think the wall was comical as well. This was about as far from the Epper stereotype of the dour Dutchman as you could find.\par
"So tell me," said Mr. Poller, guiding him to sit in an armchair,"Do you like potato salad?" Mr. Poller sat on the couch, taking up half of it.\par
"Well, yes. I do."\par
"At least five people have come up to me and said, Deem Futz likes potato salad. We gave it to him and he enjoyed it. When he comes to your house, feed him potato salad!" He winked. "I found this out this afternoon, on the way home in fact. Mama, are we having potato salad?" he called into the kitchen.\par
"Papa, of course we are. Everyone says the new pastor likes potato salad." She did not even bother turning around. There was a lot of activity in there, what with Kati one-handed with the baby.  Jeremiah was helping, and then Isaiah when he returned. \par
With a conspiratorial wink Mr. Poller told him, "I think your doom is sealed.  So tell me, what else do you like? I fear our good people are going to kill you with potato salad."\par
"I like steak.  And ravioli.  I eat a lot of things, including macaroni."\par
"Do you like chocolate cake? I hear we are going to have that as well!"\par
"Yes, I do."\par
"Well, I will tell everyone! Perhaps the potato salad will decrease, eh? And apple pie? Is that to be told about,how you sing the praises of the freshly baked apple pie? Just give me a menu, and if you do not get it within three days, you can have your money back!" And he laughed again.\par
Deem was preparing a response to this when the \i jongdamme \i0 came back through, carrying Daniel, and put him in his high chair. Ellen? Here? But a weary-looking, business-like Ellen, without makeup, in a long black denim skirt, black lace-up boots,  hair braided up under a kerchief, intent on the household duties.\par
"It is not good for a man to look at a \i jongedamme\i0  on duty. In fact, it is bad manners. She does not need the distraction and is never in looks. No jongedamme ever is, especially at the beginning.  A number of people have decided this is best for her.  You are not here to chase her. Forget about her for now - I see your eyes, I am a man as well.  People have seen you look at her, there is talk - my counsel is, wait.  Let us turn to other things.  It is difficult for a layman such as myself to ask a pastor an intelligent question, so what would you like to know?'\par
"There is nothing unintelligent about you, Mr. Poller.  Well, how many trailers do you have in the Warren?"\par
"We have this, and then we have the greenhouse, and we have the bedroom for Mama and me, and then two more for the boys - no, make that two and a half. We cut one in half. But we raised the roof on the greenhouse, and we have a cold cellar under here, but we have four and a half. The others form a square, all told like a Q, with this trailer being the tail of the Q.  We have a garden in the middle of the Q. Well, it would be a garden, was and will be, when the boys are older.  They seem to take a lot of time. And with this drought it isn't much of a garden anyway."\par
"Isaiah is well known."\par
"Well, yes, he is all boy.  He gets his climbing from my people.  We are a family of iron walkers: bridges, sky scrapers, anything tall.  There is a picture there with three of my family in it, taken long ago." It was framed on the wall, a number of men seated on a steel beam high above the ground, eating lunch, the distant ground below in the background,  like it was perfectly normal."\par
"There does not seem to be much iron walking here."\par
"You might be surprised, what with some of our buildings we are putting up. Greenhouses, not sky scrapers.  The story is that we moved here when they were building a lot of bridges on the highway system.  I became a foreman on a crew and moved up at the construction company.  Highway work died down, and the Ranch was looking for someone to run it, sort of, that is, someone with the skills I had then, at the time.  The job has gotten bigger and I have learned a lot, but there are some incredibly talented people here.  People who know a lot more than I do about a lot of things.  We run ten crews, everything from building construction to waterlines to sewers, all the utilities, you name it.  This is more a small town than anything else when it comes to utilities.  There is talk of a Public Works Director, or General Manager, sometimes, but I seem to wind up with it anyway." He laughed again.\par
"Well, it seems to be dinner time." Aside from the men, everyone was standing respectfully by the table. They got up and went in. "Enjoy the potato salad - it is Mama's pride," he whispered to Deem.\par
"Now, grace!"  And they bowed their heads and Papa said,"Heavenly Father, make us truly grateful for the most excellent food that we are about to receive!" And everyone muttered "Amen", except for Daniel, who added a loud "NO!" to the prayer. There wa a laugh, and people were guided to their seats, with Papa and Kati and Deem at one corner of the table and the \i jongedamme \i0 occupied in the midst of the teeming multitude. Deem realized he could not so much as look at her discretely.\par
"Mr. Futz, are you familiar with the institution of the \i jongdamme\i0  where you are from?" Kati Poller began."It is an ancient Epper tradition, dating some think from before the Reformation, where a family takes a young woman under its wings and teaches her how to run a household."\par
"We didn't have it.  I think they do that in Delmarva."\par
"Yes, they do.  That is where I am from. It has had great success at the Ranch in preparing young women for marriage. It is a signal, in fact, that a young woman desires to be courted - oh, dear. I am afraid I put my foot in it.  It is very useful, we at the Ranch take 'be fruitful and multiply' quite seriously, and a mother can be seriously outnumbered." She looked at her brood, then at Papa, and Ellen, and changed the subject  more smoothly than most subjects get changed."Have you had some potato salad, Mr. Futz?"\par
"Yes, I have. And the chicken is delicious. And the green beans."\par
"The potato salad is from an old family recipe, brought over from Holland, I believe."\par
Deem wondered if the eggshells he had found in it were part of the recipe. Boomer was howling outside, suddenly.  \par
"My family, Mr. Futz.  By way of Russia."\par
"Russia?"\par
"Yes," Mr. Poller continued,"The Pollers were living near Amsterdam until the Spanish came. They then moved across, all the way to the Volga River, at the invitation of the Czar, and built roads and bridges and dikes.  They drained swamps and built farms.  There were many happy and peaceful Epper villages there, south of what is now Volgograd, one of the largest areas Eppers have ever populated. Scattered, of course, in small villages, which has always been the Epper way."\par
"And?" asked Deem.  He knew the answer, but it was the sort of thing people like to tell. Eppers like to tell family history.\par
"When the Communists took power they threatened the Eppers, who as a whole were sympathetic to the Czar, to the White Russians.  Mostly they fled down the Volga on barges. My father could never explain to me how the barges landed in Nebraska, but there is where most of them landed! Again with the small rural villages, taking up life as if still in Russia.  We were the easternmost Eppers."\par
"Does anyone know what happened to those who stayed?"  Boomer was unhappy outside. Scratching and whining.\par
"No, no one knows.  People have looked on maps of Russia for the villages, but the names have been changed, or the villages are no longer there.  Pollervoort is no more, neither is Nordpollervoort, nor Sudpollervort, nor Ostpollervoort.  We Pollers were not very original with names! But they are all gone.  After the Soviet Union fell, a Poller went over there looking, with maps people had given him.  He found no Eppers, just deserted villages in places, and some with a few Russians in them who told them nothing."\par
"Yes," said Deem,"At one time there were Epper villages from the North Sea to east of the Volga, all small, rural villages, none with political power, often suspect in the eyes of the government.  At least here, in the United States, there is freedom of religion."\par
Papa looked at him. "We have been under investigation or been the target of federal lawsuits for years, for breaking regulations, for the way we compensate workers, you name it.  We have some able lawyers, but sometimes I suspect the federal government wants to shut us down."\par
"That is not the same as the army burning the village."\par
"No, it is not.  There is some debate about being politically active. We are awfully insulated from the world out here. It has its pluses but we cannot protect our Utopia forever. It is hardly a Utopia. Utopia, is that the right word?"  Boomer howled as if to protest the unfair political situation.\par
"I believe it is.  Mrs. Poller, you have not said where you are from."\par
"I am Delmarva-deutsch. People settled there because they looked like the flat plains of northern Europe." Boomer howled again.\par
"Isaiah, has that dog been fed?"\par
"No, ma'am."  He got up and found the big bowl and began filling it.\par
Kati continued,"Papa and I are both from what people consider extremely conservative Epper families, proper scrubby Dutch if you will, steeped in the old ways.  It may surprise you to learn that this was an arranged marriage. We met on our wedding day. It has worked for us."\par
She looked around, caught Papa's eye, and continued,"Both families were appalled when we move here.  That was a confusing time - it was compared to the Winter of Discontent, some have called it - the winter of 1978, when people endured the blizzards in tents, was long over, but there were hardships.  A lot of people didn't have basic life skills and I felt I could do a lot of good here, and I believe I have, over the years, they simply don't teach  young women to keep house anymore-"\par
This was awkward, thought Deem. Is she trying to arrange a marriage here?\par
Her discourse on proper housekeeping was broken off when Isaiah opened the door, his arms full of full bowl, and Boomer barrelled in, pushing the eight year old aside. The dog grabbed the corner of the tablecloth and ran out the door with it, dragging most of the food and plates and everything on the floor. Isaiah slammed the door on the table-cloth, but Boomer had managed to get the chicken. There was a disaster from the table-top to the door, and silence. Ellen had stopped several dishes from going over the edge of the table, at the cost of an arm covered in mashed potatoes, carrots, potato salad and macaroni.  The dishes had been caught, but there was a spray over to the wall. The adults got up and looked around at the mess.\par
"No!" Daniel protested. \par
"Well, at least you have your dinner," said Papa, and laughed. Somehow it was very funny.\par
"I am very, very sorry," said Isaiah, and meant it. Mama was looking at the table cloth, her finest lace one, after pulling it inside. The door had not damaged it, and somehow Boomer had not torn it.  It would need washing, that was all.\par
"That was quick thinking, Isaiah," said Papa,"Now, you go find that turreen with the chicken in it, if that dog has not dragged it to town!"\par
"Good thinking, Ellen," said Mama,"Please clean your arm off first - I think otherwise you will drip everywhere. Oh, my." It became clear Ellen had caught a wave of food-splatter from head to foot. "Well, you will have to change later.  Clean yourself up a little and then you will be able to help clean up. Jeremiah, start taking plates to the sink. Start with the unbroken one, and the silverware. Good boy. I will need to feed Daniel."\par
"No!" Daniel wanted down.  He could not see the mess very well.\par
Isaiah came back in, carrying the china turreen. Somehow it was intact, but had been licked clean. "It was under the porch."\par
"Ok, put it in the sink."\par
"Oh, Pastor Futz, I am so very sorry about this. That dog - well, he was supposed to guard cattle."\par
"Now he just keeps Sumerians out," Isaiah explained.\par
"Sumerians?"\par
"Since we got him, there have been no Sumerian invasions of the Ranch. An old joke."\par
"I see. Well, actually, I hope you do not mind if I stay and help clean up."\par
"Oh, Pastor Futz, we cannot ask you to do that."\par
"Well, I want to. You are a most enjoyable family."\par
"While we work, then, perhaps we can chat? Where are you from, if I may ask?"\par
"Not so far from Delmarva.  I am from Berkeley Springs, West Virginia, 'George Washington Bathed Here'.  It is a resort town that gets a lot of tourists on weekends.  It has springs. One is supposed to be George Washington's bathtub.  He was definitely in the area. The Epper village is sort of very subdued, and many people have no idea there is one there." He had eye contact with Ellen.  There was interest there, but also a determination to not show any interest. It was a brief millisecond, and she avoided eye contact with him aftewards.  She was not wearing makeup and really did look exhausted.  Odd to think of her dressed like an other-century serving girl. The great Ellen Reddy Bread, here.\par
The table was cleared and scrubbed. Another tablecloth, one for daily use,  was spread, and there were dessert plates and chocolate cake with chocolate frosting and even a marischino cherry on it.  The cassarole would be scraped off the rug later, but that would take a while. If people could avoid the area around the door? When the time came, perhaps Mr. Futz could exit through the greenhouse. He liked the idea of seeing the Warren. \par
"Excellent chocolate cake. Superb. The best I have ever had," Deem told the Pollers. Papa looked amused.\par
"Give credit where credit is due.  The \i jongedamme\i0  made it herself. There is hope for that girl after all."  Deem did not look at her, which was right and proper. He wanted to throw etiquette out the window and gawk. Talk to her at length. Take her in his arms.  But he controlled himself.\par
"Would you like to lead us in our family devotions, Pastor?"\par
"Well, it is your house. But thank you.  My job is to equip the saints for ministry, not do the ministry.  If you don't mind, I would like to see what you do."\par
"That is fine. Well, we are in John. John 12:1-8".  Papa reached for his Greek New Testament and his Bible and turned to the passage.  The song, "My Hair, His Feet," came to Deem's mind. It had been a favorite, about the woman wiping the Lord's feet with her hair.  He suddenly realized it was an Ellen Reddy Bread gold.  He decided not to mention it, as everyone would be thinking of it.   Papa led them in the Lord's prayer and they prayed for Oma, who was indeed ill.\par
Papa showed Deem the Warren, and took him out through the greehouse door. "This was the first greenhouse on the Ranch. Here we grow most of our own vegetables, year round. In the winter we take advantage of the solar heat, but in the summer we open the windows." There were row on row of plants in racks.  Three sides of a trailer and the roof had been stripped off and replaced with glass panes.  The floor had been filled with gravel. \par
They shook hands and Deem left the greenhouse, feeling buoyant. He stood, getting his bearings, and Papa came out and showed him to his car.  He had been about to go the wrong way.\par
 Back in the kitchen Isaiah asked Ellen if Deem would be a good husband. He was the best Isaiah had found so far.  She turned beet red.  Mama rebuked him for nosy  and inappropriate questions and told Ellen to go check on Oma, and if she is finished, get her tray. And then she may clean herself and change.\ul\par
\ulnone\par
}
 