{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Ellen set her demitasse down carefully and stared at it while pondering the question.  Her mind was either blank, or it was going in a million directions, each too small and quckly gone to focus on.  She wasn't sure yet, and hopefully the snow would settle down and she could see clearly.  She focused on the white china cup with its blue pattern of flowers, its matching saucer, the matching coaster on the light maple table in front of them with its grain, its wonderful grains that caught the eye, and she blurted out, "I guess I really am not ready to answer that."\par
The woman sitting next to her touched her shoulder reassuringly. "Then I suppose it might be more productive to look at some other things."\par
Ellen nodded. Mrs. Hook looked kindly at her.  She wanted Ellen to call her by her first name, Anna, but that was one of those things - there were a lot of those things.  It just seemed proper to call her Mrs. Hook, even though they were both adults.  But Mrs. Hook was thirty years older, at least, and Ellen respected her immensely. In the silence the tall grandfather's clock ticked.  It sounded very reassuring.  Somewhere nearby a car, not a truck, pulled up and parked and car doors opened and two men were talking.  They walked off.  That was unusual in the middle of the day.  A baby was crying and was comforted, and several houses away  Libby's famous violin practice began, at which dogs throughout the Ranch began to howl.  That was strangely normal, and never seemed to disturb the children. It was a reassuring part of life at the Ranch.  Ellen, as musically inclined as she was, had no idea what Libby was trying to play. Someone had told her Libby was working on some basic scales.  Her father operated a jackhammer and Ellen's private thought was that explained a lot of it. Her parents were not musicians.  They wanted their daughter to be one.\par
Someone had actually gone to the Council of Twelve about it.  She had been instructed to memorize the first part of Romans 5, Hebrews 12 and portions of 1 Peter, with the admonition that opportunities to learn patience are to be welcomed, not grumbled about. "The Apostle never heard Libby play the violin," she had said to all her friends,"Or he would never have...Oh, I am absurd."  And that had kicked off the Ladies' Bible Memory Club, still in existence.  Exactly who it was who had gone to the Council was a closely guarded secret. All the founding ladies said it could have been them.\par
"And men?" Mrs Hook asked, back in the present.\par
"We discussed Weed."\par
"Yes." She sighed. "He has been on the hearts and minds of many of us for many years.  It seems like there the battle for the soul of a man is most strong, and no one here sees the end of it. I will discuss what you have told me with one of the elders, probably Elder Cassell.  This should not be allowed to continue."\par
"Thank you.  I am used to being stared at, but this is -"\par
"Yes. I know. I was young once."\par
"I am not exactly young."\par
"In comparison to some you are.  And if you have aged, you have only gotten more attractive."\par
"Well, thank you."\par
"An observation, my dear, not a compliment."\par
"I really am afraid of them, you know.  They are strong and they only are interested in my looks and - physical relief."\par
"Not all men are like that, my dear.  You were badly betrayed, by more than one.  You cannot hold it against half the human race."\par
"No, I cannot.  But there it is.  Fact versus forgiveness."\par
"And we forgive in the face of the facts, not in denial of them. And we own what we have done wrong."\par
"You are implying I have been at fault."\par
"My dear, I was speaking generally.  That is a little defensive, no?"\par
"Suggesting ----" \par
"Suggesting nothing.  I think we might have found something. What, I do not know." Mrs. Hook spoke very softly, looking nowhere.\par
Tears welled up in Ellen's eyes, to her surprise.  Sometimes talking with Mrs. Hook was like peeling onions, you could not help crying.  She peeled back layers that needed peeling, just seemed to find things with tenderness and compassion that needed divine mercy and healing, without even naming them or knowing them.  It was like the effects of a good word of prophecy, but without the word itself. Her mildness was surgically sharp and effective. \par
"So many difficulties, so many failures, so much hurt," Ellen whispered. Stuff from the past had welled up, sharp-edged, even clearer than at the time, like it was presently happening, but at the same time oddly remote. Attachment and detachment. She had a choice as to what to do with it - keep it or let it go. And it would be gone, gone forever.  She wanted none of it, not the emotional memories, not even the memory. But it was part of her past.  There was pain, here was healing.  She had been through this with Mrs. Hook before.  Instead of talking at length about old troubles, it went this way. Ellen was suddenly aware she was in the presence of God.  This alwaays took her by surprise. \par
"Can you bring them to Jesus now?" \par
Ellen found them, bundled them, rolled them off her back onto His, as she had been taught.\par
"Surely our griefs He Himself bore, and our sorrows He carried," Mrs. Hook said, reciting Isaiah 53.\par
"Yet we ourselves esteemed Him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted," Ellen replied, and smiled.  She felt better, cleaner, more at ease with God and forgiving to the world, whole and sane.  Talking to Mrs. Hook was like that.\par
"Well, that is enough for today, I think," said Mrs. Hook,"I suggest you memorize all of the Song of the Suffering Servant, Isaiah 52:13-53:12, for next week.  It is a poem in the Hebrew that is a tight fiften verses, five sets of three, with 53:4-6 at the center. Focus on Him."\par
"I will, Mrs. Hook." She had parts of it down already. "Thank you."\par
"It is my pleasure, and my calling, to serve Christ in counseling people." Ellen gathered her things and stood. She picked up the demitasse and saucer with her free hand.\par
"I'll get it, don't worry."  Mrs. Hook took the china.\par
At the door Ellen turned again,"Do you know an eight-year-old boy who climbs named Isaiah?"\par
"Yes. Isaiah Poller. Everyone knows him. His father is the general superintendent of the Ranch, in charge of the physical facilities.  Isaiah comes of a long and honorable line of ironworkers - men who walk iron on bridges and tall buildings.  Climbing is in his blood. He climbs everything." Mrs. Hook smiled.\par
"Well, he told me I should get married." Ellen smiled. Mrs. Hook smiled and said nothing. They hugged.\par
"Next week, same time."\par
"I will be here. Bye-bye."\par
"God bless."\par
That went well, Ellen thought, and she had a lot to think about.  She really admired Mrs. Hook. It would be neat to be like her, helping people with their deep needs and bringing healing into the souls of the suffering, light into darkness, water in dry lands, wholeness in broken people.  It would be neat to be the wife of an elder, a spiritual director, a wisewoman leading a life of celibate prayer and study, maybe a pastor's wife.  There just aren't that many guys of the right sort around, if any.  God's timing, His plans, her trust in that, some are called to celibacy.  Chasing men is not appropriate.  But sometimes they need some help getting them to chase. But not manipulation.\par
She came to the crosswalk by Elder Cassell's.  She slowed down because the last time she had come through here a teenager had almost crashed into her, recklessly running. So she checked both ways before crossing and dashed across the opening. Then she realized there had been two guys in suits, very un-Ranchlike, especially on men who were not getting on in years, in front of Elder Cassell's. A good suit can make a man look, Whoa!  She tried to find a more precise term, as Mrs. Hook had encouraged her to use precise terms when thinking about  such things. She often buried things needing examination under fuzzy thinking.  Handsome? That wasn't it, particularly for the one opposite, the one she saw better.  Nice. Maybe that would do. They were nice looking. Attractive. Kind. He looked kind. Thoughful. Perceptive.  There.  Who are they, she wondered.  Probably she would never see them again, and one point is that God could send a man anytime He felt was the right time, and would, or would withhold that, for His good purposes. Had she expressed any interest or noticed them in a way that they would know? No. She had only paused a second, and here her mind was babbling on.  She doubted they had noticed her.  Was she interested in either?  Why was she even asking?  She was pondering this when -\par
"Hey! it was Isaiah, Isaiah Poller.\par
"Well, speak of the - I mean, hello, Isaiah."\par
"Hi, Miss Ellen."\par
"I'm surprised you aren't on top of a trailer or something."\par
"Did you see me on one?"\par
"No."\par
"That's good, because I wasn't on one.  Papa told me not to do that anymore, because sometimes the roofs leak and I might get blamed, even if I never got on that one.  We had some leaks when it rained and I got blamed."\par
"Well, then I suggest you stay off of them." She was thinking of him like her little brother. You could not help liking him.\par
He smiled at her.  He liked her.  She was like a big sister, which he did not have. He used to like Lois, but then she became their \i jongedamme\i0 . "I am still trying to get you married," he confided,"but it is hard work.  You will have to be patient."\par
"Why, thank you, Isaiah." He was most amusing! Out of the mouths of babes...\par
"Papa says if you want something done right, you have to do it yourself. He says 'if it is to be, it is up to me.' No slacking for us Pollers!"\ul\par
\ulnone  He looked at her. "I wish you were a Poller."\par
"Thank you. That is a very nice thing to say, Isaiah."  He had a stable family. Not no-father, missing-mother, troubled-sister, no-other-relatives. people who claimed to be relatives who weren't, just wanting money."You should be very grateful for your marvelous family. Isaiah."\par
"You ought to come to our house for dinner. Mama can really cook! I suppose you cook. If you don't, Mama can teach you LOTS!!"\par
"My goodness, young man!"\par
"Do you have a family here?"\par
"That is kind of nosy, don't you know?"  He was something else.  She was almost laughing at it.  But she also did not want to talk about that, not now anyway. She filed away talking about family with Mrs. Hook next week.  It had been discussed before.\par
"I guess you are right. But how can I find out things if I don't ask?"\par
"That is a good question. Sometimes, Isaiah, you have to look at things - questions can get in the way of learning.  And you can ask politely.  You weren't impolite, just - well. Some people would take it as rude.  But not from you."\par
"Thank you. I am sorry if I was rude."\par
"You weren't.  I don't think you could be, because you are so sweet.  But if your parents invited me to dinner, I would happily accept.  I think it would have to come from them."\par
"That's fair."\par
"Well, this is where I live. Bye-bye, Isaiah."\par
"Bye-bye. I will ask my parents."\par
Inside, she thought she had been walked home by a nice young man, one  without certain motives.  Except the odd one of wanting to get her married off. What a world.\par
}
 