{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 After the dry, scorching days and the prairie fire had come a wall of rain Friday night that soaked the dry land, filled ditches and ponds, washed dirt off cars and rushed down waterways in the old, familiar way. Out at the Ranch it had started after dinner and gave them twelve hours of steady rain, sometimes very heavy, but heavy all night, with thunder and lightning.  The skies cleared to a cooler world with dawn, and the ground was now a mushy ash. The rain continued all day Saturday, and dropped down to an intermittent spotty drizzle on Sunday that you could walk in and not get particularly wet.\par
They took their Sabbath.  \par
On Monday morning, Isaiah's Papa and Isaiah walked to where Snake Woods had been. Boomer was told to stay home. Had it burned down? Was it gone? Papa had a flashlight and rope and a camera. Papa walked around the puddles, which lay particularly on the exposed limestone. Here and there were low mounds where the topsoil had long ago been scraped into piles.  Over the years the piles were getting lower and widening, giving the land a strange look and feel. There was rock and water and bare, burned soil, like the world at its beginnings.  It was strangely quiet and there were no birds, no rabbits, and no insects. The air smelled fresh and clean, the wind coming in from the freshly burned and washed lands to the southwest.  The rain came up out of Oklahoma mostly in those parts. There were a few Cherokee at the Ranch, and they had told Isaiah how Oklahoma was so full of buffalo that all the white people had to leave.  That was when he was little, last year,  and he knew better now. They had stories about Trickster Rabbit that they loved to tell and Isaiah loved to listen to. But he still hoped to see some buffalo coming out of the southwest.\par
It was not long before Isaiah was thoroughly wet, as he had splashed in the puddles until he was tired of the game, which took quite a while, and some of the puddles were over his shoes in depth.  There were also the ponds they had built to water the cattle, but Isaiah's papa told him to steer clear of them. Down east, if it was down, it was very little, was where what Papa called "waste" was being spread and grass was growing.  They hoped to rebuild the prairie.  When the wind was in the southeast sometimes it really stank at the Ranch, especially after a rain.  But the wind usually didn't come that way.\par
They found where Snake Wood had been from the few burnt tree stumps on the edge of a massive sinkhole that had opened up in the rainy nights - some two hundred feet across and  deep than they could see. Rumbling came out of the ravine as they approached. They saw pieces of rock falling in from the cliff on the other side - it still wasn't stable, and was very, very dangerous. It was still in the midst of forming.  They stood off and watched as some of the remaining trees waved, fell over, and slid down as they were eaten by the sinkhole.\par
"I think the snakes, and the treasure, if there was any, all went down that hole. I am afraid the coins you have are just about the end of it." \par
"I know what I saw."\par
"I know, Isaiah. The coins prove it.  But it is now buried somewhere, along with its snakes."\par
"Kind of reminds me of the Garden of Eden, you know? The treasure was guarded by the snake."\par
"Well, there was a treasure, the fruit, and a snake, but that is a looong way from Genesis. There was a snake, but he sure was not guarding the apple. Other way around."\par
"Perhaps we were never meant to find that treasure."\par
"Maybe we still can, after the sinkhole settles.  Some people would do a whole lot of digging for that much money. If there is that much money."\par
"I didn't see a whole lot.  I was paying attention to other things."\par
They watched it for a while from a distance, the sinkhole rumbling as more rock fell into it. It grew quiet except for an occaisional thumping sound, and was then still. Then it would pick up again and taper off.\par
As they walked away they could still hear it grumbling, and then it was still.\par
"We will check it later, in a few days, when it has stabilized, Papa told him.  "You will need a bath when we get home."  Isaiah was soaked through and through.    \par
\par
\par
"That is the boy I saw in the ice cream parlor."\par
"Who is the man? And stop whispering." \par
"I would recognize him anywhere, "Harry replied. "He is the one who stood in the road Friday night.  His name's Poller.  He comes into town a lot.  He is a big shot at the Ranch. Used to be an ironworker.  Then a foreman.  There are stories I've heard about how strong he is. Not someone to mess with."\par
"You don't need to whisper.  They are over a mile away and don't expect us to be here."  Harry and Mike were lying flat on a little mound on Ranch property, outside the fence. Harry's binoculars were trained on Isaiah and his Papa. Every few minutes they switched, with the one not using his binoculars looking everywhere else.how  They could see Isaiah and his papa leave the complex and head out over the rain-drenched fields.  There were puddles everywhere, it seemed, and they preferrred to pick their way carefully through them. For a while the boy was splashing in them but he tired of the game and followed his father as he picked his way through.\par
"These are non-reflective, right?"\par
"I'm not such an idiot as to take shiny objects out and wave them. Yep.  Old Man Johnson said they are the best he could find.  Better than military grade.  Don't go losing them."\par
"They are headed for the treasure maybe?"\par
"That's why we're  out here.  They are in this together.  We follow them, we find the treasure."\par
"Yep."\par
Harry and Mike watched the two figures moved out of sight and trailed them to the next mound, keeping low. They watched them through their binoculars and trailed them, lying on the mounds as they came to them.  Isaiah and his father had no  idea they were being tailed.  Suddenly they stopped for a minute and turned back north.\par
"This mound is soggy, like the others."\par
Yeah, but -ants."\par
They spent a while stripping themselves and slapping ants.  They ran back to their truck and sprayed themselves with insect repellent.  With that done, they went back and collected their clothes and shook out the ants before putting them back on.\par
"I figure they stayed down underground in the rain. Now it's drying out."\par
"You think?"  They quietly slapped a few more ants.  Where were the two they were tailing/ Still headed north, with the boy splashing in puddles. Suddenly Poller stopped and wheeled around. Before then, though, both Mike and Harry had hit the ground.  Poller stared in their direction for a minute.\par
"What is it, Papa?" they heard the boy.\par
"I thought I heard something."\par
"Buffalo?"\par
"Oh, no.  Sometimes we get other creatures around here, though. Come on. Race you home!" and they took off, with Isaiah laughing as he splashed through the puddles.\par
"Were we seen?"\par
"What do you think?"\par
Mr. Johnson would want to know why Isaiah and his father had turned back.  So Harry and Mike carefully  moved south, keeping low.  They kept checking, looking all around, to be sure they had not been seen.  Or seen again.  \par
They came to the brink of a cliff.  Below them was a deep hole, the sides of which sloped down into darkenss. The soil was loose and mixed with rock.  As they watched, more soil and rock slid down into the hole.\par
"Sinkhole," said Mike.  They stared at it for a while, now from a distance.\par
 "I'm going to check around," said Harry,"I think there should be some coins or something. Some trace of the treasure. Some clue."\par
"You're not going down there, are you?"\par
Mike watched a tall, burned tree tip over and fall into the hole.\par
Harry called back, "It is not as bad as it looks.  These things don't happen overnight. Geology and all that. They take thousands of years."  He was moving west, because he saw that the cliff was lower.\par
Mike stepped back as some of the cliff rock fell.  He moved back fifty feet, and moved west as well. He looked north: still no one.\par
Mike saw a crack form in the ground parallel to the cliff  and a large block of rock split off and fell into the hole. He moved further back.\par
Harry had moved to where the cliff was very low, and had jumped down into the lower area. He moved east, looking around.  He was sure he was too smart to get beat by this. The treasure was here, and he would find it.\par
Ahead of him another tree was swallowed, and more ground.\par
"I am going to find that treasure, if it is the last thing I do," he yelled back.\par
"That's what it is looking like. Don't be a fool, Harry.  There may be nothing there. I think you are risking your life!" Mike looked back north. Nothing. He didn't like the way the edge of the sinkhole was coming closer.\par
"I am not the fool here.  You think I am too stupid for this? You might as well run along now, then.  I am not afraid.  You just have to be smart."\par
Harry moved along the floor of the ravine, looking for anything that might be man made, anything that would give him a clie. . He also had the snakes in mind.  He picked a dead one up and looked at it. "Rattler," he muttered.  He threw it away.\par
Just ahead of him was the sinkhole.  The ground was softer here, and there were cracks along the ground, parallel to the sinkhole. Right here it looked like someone had taken a huge axe and had whacked the ground: sharp-edged, narrow and deep.\par
"Sfuff must be falling into a big old cave," he said to himself,"Probably almost done."\par
There was a noise behing him, and a crack opened up there.  The ground he was standing on suddenly dropped a foot.  He watched the sinkhole swallow another tree.\par
"If I ever have kids will I ever have a story to tell," he said to himself,"about this. Now, where is that money? Hopefully it didn't go down the hole."\par
He kept looking, moving slowly.  The ground beneath his feet was unsteady and would drop an inch or so unexpectedly.  Rocks were falling off the cliffs on either side.  The cliff-face to the south suddenly collapsed and about a hundred feet of it fell with a roar into the sinkhole.\par
The ground shook when the rocks hit.  Harry was too far away to get hit by falling rock from the cliff.\par
"Man!" he said.  He realized the ground he was on had slid fifteen feen down. He looked down into the darkeness, now much closer to him. There was water down there. It was much  closer than it had been.  He suddenly realized he was in great danger. "It's Mike's fault," he saID, "he should have warned me. He should have talked me out of coming down here. I will pay him back, I will, when I get out of here. It is Mike's fault I am down here."\par
This could be the end, he thought.  If he was going to meet his maker, he would have hard words for such a fool. Maybe give the so-and-so a broken nose.  That would go some way to settling his account with the imjustice he had always suffered.\par
Something hit the back of his right leg and he lost his balance. He watched as a tree went past him, down into the darkness, and a branch caught him suddenly and took him along with the full weight of the tree.  He struggled to get free.  He hit the water and went under.  in  the water he freed himself from the branch. He struggled back to the surface, finally free, took a deep gasp of air, and watched a cascade of rocks falling down on him.  There was no escape, as the sides of the hole slid in from all directions. \par
\par
}
 