{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 She came up to Deem and stopped abruptly. "Pastor Futz, I am Debbie Calloway. I will not be attending your services because I am Catholic and a member of good standing of St. George Catholic Church. But I want to welcome you to this community. We are one community without differences. You need to understand that.  I want you to address the root of our problems in this community and that is sin. The sin of pride.  They have taken the Marine Corps and turned it into some kind of idol. I hear your church, that is your 'ecclesiastical community's building' is some kind of shrine not to God, not to any saint but to the Marines - I have never been inside, being Catholic and that being a sin against Holy Mother Church to step inside a Protestant chu- eccesiastical community. I should not call your building a church. Martin Luther wrecked things so that western civilization is still suffering his rebellion. And that rebellion is still destroying us. There are over 30,000 Protestant denominations and I think you should come home to the Catholic Church. That Marine pride and the root sin of our city is because of Sola Scriptura. You believe in Sola Scriptura, don't you?" She did not really wait for an answer. "I think you should work to balance the Marine Corps culture so that those who are not Marine would be welcome here. It is getting ridiculous. It is ridiculous. You will work to fix the city, won't you? And my neighbor is in your parish - your community and she is an ungodly sinner. I won't tell you her name. You probably know it already.  You will speak to her, I hope. And I think you should meet Father. He is such a good and pious priest and he will bring you home to the Catholic Church.  Well. That is all I had to say. I am not one to waste words. Good day, sir."\par
Green round turtle-shell glasses parked between his parted long hair and his mustaches and beard over army fatigues came up to Deem.  Deem missed his name, which he mumbled.  He spoke in almost a whisper. \par
"The kingdom of God is within you," he said.  Deem noticed with a shock that he was very thin, almost skelatal.\par
"Yes," Deem replied.\par
"I am glad you agree.  We must touch the God within us, that divine spark. Don't you agree?"\par
"Sorry, but I don't agree.  We are in the image of God, to be sure, but that image is flawed. The good news must come to us from the outside, not well up from within us."\par
"That image is flawed because we have forgotten. We must remember.  The fall in the Garden is simply allegory, hearkening back to a perfection we have forgotten that is calling us back."\par
"No, the one calling us is the Savior."\par
"Yes. The Savior. Plato. Jesus. Maharishi. They are all the same. They all have the same message. I am sure you agree."\par
"I don't agree. Jesus said He is the only way."\par
"That is what you Christians say. You are wrong.  We must seek to touch again the All, from which we came, and to which we shall return.  I believe in universal love and peace. Not narrow doctrine. Not hateful rhetoric."\par
"I'm not hating, just reporting.  I am just a messenger."\par
"So am I, bro, so am I.  Well, I don't mean to take up all your day. Some of us meet on Wednesday nights to seek the truth within us  and ascend. You are welcome. If you are interested, I am sure we will see each other again. Nicholls is a small town."\par
"I would like to talk to you some more."\par
"I am sure you would," the man said, moving away with a smile. \par
This had gone much better than his first experience with street evangelism in Evangelism 101.  A seventh-grade girl had gotten so mad at him that she gave him a black eye and seven stitches when she hit him with her purse.  Not a good beginning to becoming a street preacher, as people had pointed out helpfully with a great deal of amusement. But that also was the long-ago past, far distant, with many other trials between it and the now. He had then acquired the nickname he had never really shaken: St. Peirasmos, not in the sense of temptation but of trial. 'Why do bad things always happen to Deem?" they had begun with mocking, then with wonder, and finally in grief and prayer. He would have won 'Most Likely to be Hit By Lightning Twice' hands down, if they had been at all cruel.  He thought maybe he got more prayer than anyone else in his class.  And here he was.  This, the now, was a result of unknown hours of prayer by people he would never meet.  He found that strengthening.\par
The next person was clearly a veteran, a man his own age but with haunted eyes and a look like he had seen too much.  He was dressed, the previous man, in the almost tell-tale outfit - Deem thought of using the word 'uniform - of long hair and beard, torn jeans, boots and a camo jacket. He wore "his cover like a Marine", as Kitten had taught him, with the baseball cap pulled down to shade the eyes. Most Americans wore their baseball caps with the brim much higher on the forehead than anyone he'd seen in town. Underneath it were dark sunglasses that completely hid his eyes, except that he kept taking them off and putting them back on nervously.\par
"Padre, listen," he said, almost whispering. "I think I am damned. I mean it. I think God has singled me out as reprobate, made me, if you will, to be tormented forever. What I have done, Oh, what I have done." And his voice became so quiet that Deem could barely hear him. He went on for a while. Deem listened to all of it.  The man had been a church member but had left it for the Marine mentality, 'a killer with a stone-cold heart of ice' in his phrase. It reminded Deem of Crazy Harry. "How can I approach God? How can I think he could ever save me? Not that I want his salvation, not after this. It would not be just, it would not be fair. Better to send me to hell with the people I sent there. Did they ever have the chance to hear the Gospel? I was too busy killing them. No, padre, no,I cannot be saved. There is not enough grace in the universe for me.  If God is love He hates me. Otherwise He could not be love."\par
"Justice and mercy met at the cross, friend," Deem said softly,"Grace and truth met, all is summed up in the death He died. The death He died for you. God came down to meet you because you could not go up to meet Him." Deem wished he'd thought of that in the last exchange.  Usually he thought of the right thing to say long after the opportunity was gone.\par
"I wish I could believe it,but no. That applies to other people but not to me."\par
"It applies to everyone: God calls everyone.  Many are called, but few are chosen. I think you are hearing His voice, calling you.  Grace is higher and deeper and wider and stronger than anything we know."\par
"I have heard it.  But it is not available to me. It would not be right. It would be a slap in the face of God to save me.  In fact, from what I have seen, I would not want to be with God forever. Frankly, I would rather be damned than to be with the God I know about."\par
"Perhaps that God is not the real God? I think you may have a false image of God. Let me see if I can say this in a way that may make sense.  God sent His Son. He took - he took point." That was a phrase he had heard Kitten use earlier. "He took a bullet for you.  Now, do you really want to disrespect the fact that he took a bullet for you and bought the farm for you, so you could live?" Deem hoped he was using the terms correctly. He felt like he was something of a missionary to this far country, learning their language. \par
"No," the man said,"the highest respect is given for those who give their lives for their fellow Marines."\par
"Exactly.  And He gave His life for the whole world.  You. Me. Everyone.  Even those who were killing Him."\par
"I got a bum deal."\par
"Did He get a bum deal? A fair trial? He was innocent but they killed Him anyway."\par
"I am not innocent."\par
"No, you are not.  But there is a way to have your sin removed and your conscience - your mind - made clean."\par
The man thought about it. "It just would not be right, Padre. Thanks for talking to me.  But salvation is for other people.  I am damned." \par
And Deem watched sadly as the man walked off.\par
The next man introduced himseld as Ephraim Spinster, formerly of the Ranch, now living in Nicholls and going to an Epper church out of town.  He hoped he could go back to the church since "that Hartmann" was gone. He missed Pastor Jake, although it had been years.\par
"You knew Jake Prophet?" Deem asked. \par
"Well, first off, his name was not Jake Prophet.  His name was James Profim - he was called Jake, after the Greek - , and the 'Prophet' label was given in derision.  It really annoyed him, because he didn't think he was anything of the sort and the things that happened around him, like the healings, happened often despite him, not because of him.  He took credit for nothing and he often had a 'deer in the headlights' feeling. 'What am I doing here, Lord?' he would say, and that the Lord had led him on a very strange path. \par
"I first saw him back in Maryland. After the Episcopal Presybertians had kicked him out - we were very cessassionist then, very walk-by-faith-and-don't-even-dare-pray-for-healing - he got invitations from all over.  We were Eppers, as you know we call ourselves, from E-P, and he was a breath of fresh wind.  We felt safe with his theology, being an Epper, the most distinguished up-and-coming-theologian we had,  yet here he was praying for healing! He was a breath of fresh wind, and kicking him out was the worst thing the denomination could have done.  A lot of people followed, heading mainly into non-denominational churches.  That was in the seventies. " \par
"He was a tremendous speaker.  He spoke exegetically from the Greek, but with passion and powerful application. He preached on the raising of the widow's son, and that God healed today.  There was no altar call - we don't do that.  At the end of the message he asked people who needed healing to ask Jesus to touch them then and there. There was a silence, and then a woman started yelling "I am healed!" She was in the front row, and she sort of danced and waved her crutches.  Then someone else jumped up and said the same thing, and it was then like popcorn.  I looked at Jake, who was as surprised as anyone as twenty or thirty people were dancing around the front of the church.  He tried to restore order, and shut down the service. He asked everyone to leave unless you wanted to stay and wait on the Lord. The ushers sort of guided the noisy people out of the sanctuary into an adjacent room.  Then he went around and prayed with each person - they were each quietly praying in their seats, asking them what they wanted prayer for and spending some time with each.  I stayed for about an hour, and I watched him.  He prayed and cried with each.\par
I was impressed.  I knew the first woman who had been healed - she had had an abscess on her foot that they kept operating on, but it would only get infected and worse, and they were talking amputation - she had been on our church prayer list for years - and my wife had a conversation with her afterwards, and kept up the friendship. She really was healed. A good, godly, holy woman.  And it was a good thing. Not charlatanism. Jake did not exalt himself, he did not excite people's emotions, he was not off theologically.  And people were healed.\par
So the Eppers were wrong.  For going to the meeting my wife and I were asked to leave our church.  We tried different churches, but none seemed to fit. Then we heard about the Refuge City in Nicholls - a place where Eppers could go.  Many came - not just Eppers, but all kinds of Jesus people and people seeking Jesus and people seeking other things, just along for the ride, and people seeking handouts and people seeking to exploit Christians. \par
The whole refuge city thing was not Jake Profim's idea.  What happened was he made a side comment about MAYBE there should be a place where people could go who no longer fit into their denomination, a place of healing, a place 'in the wilderness'.  The Ranch was bought in his name and donated to his ministry, and he was caught off guard.  Then people started showing up. We did.  We were among the first to come to the Ranch.  There were a few people in campers, two or three houses and the stable, and that was it. No one expected that thousands of people would sell their homes and show up at the Ranch.  We estimated that we had 6,000 people at one point, all unemployed and without shelter or anything.  The sentiment was that God would provide.\par
Jake provided.  He felt responsible for the whole thing, and somehow he was the Anointed Leader, something he had no interest in.  There were a lot of dysfunctional overenthusiastic idiots who had gone over the deep end of the charismatic movement, and somehow the Ranch attracted them.  I remember when you could not walk through the tent city without receiving two or three personal prophecies.  It was sort of a weird Woodstock, a hippie feeling without the weed.  That lasted several months as things got organized.  Jake appointed some men to the Council of Twelve, to run things.  That did some good, because they could act in his name.  He didn't want to provide leadership, though, and they had no idea what 'the vision" was  or how to implement it.  I think the reason for that is that there wasn't one.  We were "following the cloud" and had no idea where it was going.\par
Well, we got organized.  If you would not work, you could not eat.  The able-bodied were put to work, if they wanted to eat, if they could not find work off of the Ranch.  The place had piles of top soil and bare rock just about everywhere.  There had been a mining company or something that had scraped off almost all the topsoil, except down around Snake Wood, and the land was dead.  Waste.  Nothing could be done with it.\par
So we built dams to catch the eroding soil and the water, and where there was standing water, we cut channels in the bedrock, and we spread the soil where we could.  All that took effort.  We got grass growing, but it took years before even a tenth of the land had soil back, and it was a mess.  There were these stagnant pools of water on the rock that stank and bred mosquitoes, but had no plants besides algae. That is when we first encountered the resource agencies, namely the US Army Corps of Engineers,  because we didn't realize we would need permits to work on these things.  We have had run-ins with most of the federal and state environmental agencies on a pretty continual basis ever since.  We invited some of it, I suppose. It's pretty much all worked out and permitted now.\par
About Snake Woods.  We  had some guys presume upon the handling serpents verses and go down there.  One was bit as soon as he got into the tall grass, and he died soon afterwards. I don't know if it was because we didn't have a doctor or our level of medical care, which was pretty low for a while.  But someone else caught a snake, and then he died.  So the Council told everyone to stay away from Snake Wood.  We have had several more fatalities, the last over ten years ago.  I'm told that woods had a reputation back over a hundred years ago.\par
Anyway, we had the People of Prayer, we had holy rollers, faith healers, name it and claim it people, people who were involved in casting demons out of everything and everyone, prophets, and just plain crazy people.  It was surprising how well we got along for a long time. The Council was selected from people who had been elders at Epper churches, so that brought some stability.  Most if not all the craziness was restrained.  \par
We bought trailers. That is, Jake bought trailers and had them delivered, even though no one was expecting them to come. We drilled water wells.  We put up windmills, solar panels.  You name it. We were off the grid.  The Ranch still is, as far as I know."\par
"Do you mind me asking why you left?"\par
"No, I don't mind you asking.  But sometimes you get into conflicts with people that there is no resolution on earth for.  Sometimes it is belief, sometimes it is personality. Better to be somewhere else."\par
"Any chance of reconciliation?"\par
Ephraim looked at him. "No. For one thing, it has been too long.  There were no children involved and she is happy out there.  She went overboard with the People of Prayer - all-night prayer meetings every Friday night, long vigils in that prayer garden, God talking to her and her friends night and day."\par
"And that was bad because?"\par
"Well, there was a certain note that crept in.  I was not in on it. Somehow I was less of a Christian because I was not one of them.  She was always trying to change me into one of them. Like I was not good enough.  We no longer had a marriage - she was married to the People of Prayer, not to me.  I told her that, and she said she would take it to prayer.  And then she moved out, and one of those People of Prayer leaders told me she had devoted herself to prayer and I was not to contact her."\par
"What did you do?"\par
"Well, I talked to the Council of Twelve and they looked into it.  It turned out, well, it turned out I had grounds for a divorce, thanks to some of them."\par
"I see.  Have you worked through the issues.  As in, have you forgiven her?"\par
"I have, but she does not want to get back together."\par
"I am very sorry to hear that."\par
"Thank you." And he walked off. A short "church lady" and a taller Marine - by now Deem could tell, despite his civilian clothes - were standing together, waiting.  The church lady said something to the Marine and came forward while the Marine waited. \par
 "God bless you, Reverend Fuzz," she said, and pressed his hand.  Then she was gone, and he was looking at a twenty dollar bill she had left.  How?\par
 The Marine came up.  He was not in uniform but somehow it hung about him even more strongly close up. High and tight haircut, muscles, tan, tough look. He was younger than Deem had guessed. \par
"Reverend Fuzz," he said,"Good to meet you, sir." There was a short, firm handshake, and the hand returned to his side.  The young man seemed strangely stiff, tense, worried. Something obviously was bothering him deeply.\par
"First of all, I am not yet ordained. Secondly, the name is Futz, not Fuzz."\par
"My mistake, sir. It won't happen again, sir."\par
"Is there something I can do for you?"\par
"Well, sir, Mama told me to come talk to you." He looked behind Deem.  Deem turned, and the short church lady was standing there, easily within hearing distance.  She was avoiding eye contact. \par
"What about?" Deem turned back to the young Marine, who was visibly embarrassed.\par
"Well, sir, they made me a Marine at San Diego."\par
"Congratulations.  And?"\par
"Well, this really bothers me about Parris Island."\par
"What's that?" Deem wondered what Parris Island was. Something to do with the Marine Corps, he guessed. \par
"Is it true if you go to Parris Island you go through the pearly gates first? And the Hollywood Marines have to wait? I mean, right after, of course. Ahead of everyone else."\par
"I never heard of such a thing." Deem spoke the absolute truth.\par
"Thank you sir, that is such a relief.  Good afternoon, sir." He smiled and relaxed and walked by Deem.\par
Deem turned to face the next person. Behind him he heard them walking away, "Mama, you were right. It is so good to talk to a pastor about spiritual things."\par
"That's my boy," she said.\par
"Who are you?" it was a ten year old boy.\par
"My name is Deem Futz.  I am a candidate for pastor at the Epper Church."\par
"Oh.  I thought you were a famous baseball player or something 'cuz of the line."\par
"No, I'm not."\par
"Well, I'll just go on then."\par
"Ok," Deem told him. \par
And so it went.\par
A while later, many people later, a woman approached Deem with a firm and businesslike step.  An air of command: Deem was learning to tell the difference between those who had been enlisted Marines and who had been officers, as well as those who had never been in the Corps.  He guessed she had never been in, but from somewhere she had the air of command.  She was a short, older, well dressed woman with her hair covered in a lace covering.    "Mr. Futz, I am Sylvia Ponder. I want to welcome you to Nicholls."  She shook hands with a surprisingly strong grip.\par
He replied that he was glad to be here.\par
"I know this town can be quite a challenge. Believe me.  You see, I am from the Ranch. I think you probably have heard some awful stories from out there-"\par
Deem replied that he had not, and he would not believe them without proof.\par
"- and there is truth to some of it. Nothing is worse than a half truth. You need to understand the situation if you take the position as pastor in town. You see, we at the Ranch are Epper to the core - well, that is not what I wanted to tell you.  We are not all poor beggars, not by a long shot!  Several of the ex-pastors at the Ranch have gone into IT and are doing quite well as system administrators. There is talk of building a data center. There is also a proposal to sell part of the land for this and that - there is a standing offer, for example to sell some of the land as a landfill for a KC company. But that just does not sit right, not with a feeling that it is Holy Ground. Not a loosey-goosey feeling, just that the land is given to God and we don't feel right turning it into a landfill and covering it with garbage, of all things. It just not sit right, covering ground consecrated to God with trash.  I guess we each do that when we sin. Hmm.  Well. That's not what I wanted to tell you. I wanted to tell you that God has been good to us and tell you a little of my story. I run Fuer Die Frauen, a specialty women's clothing store here in Nicholls, and the whole thing is completely amazing, how God has His hand in it."\par
"Back in Maryland I attended a Jake Profim meeting.  That was when he was a big name in the denomination simply because of his abilities in the pulpit - his trememdous teaching and preaching, that is.  He had then accepted healing as for today, which went against every cessationist bone in the Epper body then, but they had not yet come out against him. He was, however talking about treasure in heaven. He - I remember it so clearly, after so long - said people had come to see him, but there was one greater than him there they should learn to see, and they had come to see healings and be entertained, but they needed to abandon levity and abandon the world and come to Christ fully, on bended knee, with whole heart. Our treasure is not on earth. We might as well throw it away. God gives us the power to get wealth. Oh, he said it so much better than I can - he wrote a book "Treasure in Heaven" - have you read it, Mr. Futz?"\par
Deem said he had not. He did not tell her that touching any of Jake Profim's materials would have gotten him kicked out of seminary.  Better students would probably have been allowed to reaad them his work in order to critique it.\par
"Well, He said God owned the cattle on a thousand hills. He owns us. One day we will have to give account of what we have done...But God can give back, pressed down and shaken together and - I, I forget what else. But it was powerful.  That night I encountered Christ in a way I had never before and turned my life over to him. I was willing to live what he called 'an abandoned life' thrown completely on the mercy of God,  a holy life, consecrated, pure, undefiled before Him. That is, Christ, not Jake.  I was a Christian before, but I was no longer nominal. I could not be. How could I be? And I could never go back. And I never have."\par
"And God decided to test me that night.  I had on the best lace shawl I had ever made - I made them as a hobby, they were fun - but I wore that shawl as a point of pride because I knew it was beautiful and I could show off my skills and I was beautiful in it.  Well..There was a woman who was nearby who had been eying my shawl - I had enjoyed the envious look she had given me, and I sort of smirked, until God told me then and there to give it to her. And I did! She was astonished, and I told her God told me He wanted me to give it to her. And she cried! Even though she had had many beautiful things, she had never had such a beautiful thing in her life before. And I cried. We cried together. It was beautiful.  There were people weeping and praying all over.  She turned her life over to Jesus, because now she knew how much He loved her, that He would even want her to have such a beautiful thing. And it was beautiful. It was a sacrifice to take it off and give it to her, but seeing her so happy was worth it."\par
"I did not know it, but she was in the fashion industry. She had never seen such a scarf before. It was beautiful.  It hurt to give it to her, I think I told you that.  An instant of sorrow but such a lasting outcome. She was going to show it to people. She wanted to to know where I had gotten it and I told her, rather embarrassed, that I had made it.  She looked stunned. I wondered if she was making fun of me, and she took my name and phone number."\par
"I thought that was the end of it. I heard absolutely nothing more for years, not until after Jake died.  We at the Ranch realized we were in a world of hurt because, well, Jake had been supporting the Ranch with his road ministry and a lot of us would have sat out on the Ranch and starved or froze or both without his help. I mean it.  It was crazy then. How were we supposed to live?  A lot of people were dependent on him emotionally and spiritually - a lot of that was self-inflicted and stupid, if you ask me, but I taught a group of women to sew their own clothes and to make lace shawls and table coverings and other things, including lacy undergarments. For women, of course. We made our own clothes and practiced on each other.  We made some very beautiful things."\par
"So we were sewing and lacing and crocheting away when someone showed up and asked for me. They had traced me out here, finally, and wanted to talk to me. Was I interested in a hundred thousand dollar advance and an order for ten thousand shawls? You bet I was! Not that we bet - it is just an expression - and they saw our table cloths and some other things and took photographs and said that was just the beginning. What we were doing was incredible."\par
"We were in a catalog for several years and made several million dollars. I was approached by others - they wanted to sell our stuff- and realized we could do better on our own, so I formed my own company.  It's a little more complicated than that, but there it is.  You would not believe it, but our little shop, "Fuer Dee Frauen", makes several million dollars a year from lace goods, undergarments, table cloths and other things.  All because I gave a shawl away in obedience to God one day in Maryland. God is good.  We spell it with a D-E-E because people thought it was the English "die" not the German "the".\par
Deem agreed God was good and that was quite a story.\par
"So we have these people come from New York and LA and even London and Paris and they look at our goods and buy.  We have three ladies who are training their daughters to do lacework who are absolutely amazing.  Sometimes we get into trouble with the government because of the regulations - would you believe I have a CPA and a lawyer on staff, just to keep us out of trouble? When I started it did not even know there was a minimum wage requirement.  So the building is paid off. We are not going to expand operations - people have asked us about that, and even offered to go in with us - but I think a limited line is enough.  It keeps the prices high and otherwise it would go overseas. I don't want foreign sweatshops with my name on it."\par
"So things are not so bad for us. Don't believe we are starving at the Ranch. But we are not Nicholls people.  They need to get over the Marine thing. Big time. I think we all want to the Kingdom of God, to know it is near, to know Christ is our true treasure, King, goal and end, but you know that."\par
Deem said he did.\par
"Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see- Sorry, I am preaching to you now and taking up your valuable time."\par
Deem said he had time.  She looked back at the twenty people in line.\par
"I just wanted to welcome you and here I go carrying on. Please, Mr. Futz, you are welcome at the Ranch any time. Make yourself at home. It is not a bad place, really, despite what you may hear." \par
He smiled and thanked her. And off she went.   \par
"Glad you're here, Mr. Futz.  I think the town can be rough but you'll get along. Not everyone is a Marine, by the way."\par
This was a man in his late sixties, big smile, glasses, somewhat tanned and overweight with respect to most of the people Deem had seen.  They shook hands.\par
"I'm Ike Ponner, a member of the Epper church here. Not everyone here is a Marine. And not all the Marines are like some, if you know what I mean. I am just a member.  But I have a perspective you should hear - you will hear a lot about the Ranch and the Eppers and everything, I am sure. I am guessing Eppers today don't talk a whole lot about Jake Profim.  Let me tell you about Jake Profim.  Some people call him Jake Prophet, and I use the names interchangeably, out of habit I guess.  I first heard of Jake Prophet in the mid 60s. Of course, at the time I had other things to worry about, as the Corps shipped me off to Nam. When I went, he was somewhat controversial in our little denomination of the Episcopal Presbyterians.  When I came back, he had been kicked out, but his ministry had expanded as that provided the opportunity to preach and teach in many churches, not just the EP.  He wrote some books - they all sold well. I have a copy somewhere of one of them, although they are all out of print.  He was known for tongue talking and believing in healing in his meeting, in the prophetic word for today and for all the gifts of the Holy Ghost."\par
"He was a big man and he loved the Lord. No one ever said different. He was never caught in any scandal, he never did anything bad, so far as I know, and never did he give a prophetic word that was not right on. Like Samuel.  He had a deep voice that he could use for conviction, for humor when it was appropriate, and he expounded the Word of God like a house afire. He opened it up to me, I tell you, like no one ever has. His passion for seeing people set free to follow the Lord and spread the Word consumed him."\par
"His ministry - he kept himself on a small salary, and it was all transparent - bought land for a prayer and retreat center five miles out of Nichols, the old Mueller ranch, about a hundred and twenty acres of prairie where Muellers had run livestock since time began. Some hundred people or so moved out there. They didn't mix with the townspeople, they had their own ways and their own school, their own gas station, and their own church.  A lot of them were from back east, and you could spot them by their accent, if by nothing else, when they came into town."\par
"When he got kicked out of the EP, a lot of people followed him out there.  He did not invite them, but they bought and donated all the old Miller Ranch to him - and that is all the county west of Nicholls, from the Cass County line to the Kansas State Line to the Bates County line. I don't know how many acres that is.  Let's see... It's more than half the county, even if it is worthless land thanks to the crazies searching for treasure.  That's about 28 miles north to south and about twelve miles east to west. More than that.  Nicholls is on the east side a little, because the highway doesn't exactly divide the county, and they own a sliver on the east side up near the Cass County line. Twenty eight miles, roughly, times twelve miles.  I do some math in my head, here.  Yeah, that's over 430,000 acres. Maybe half a million acres.   Huge.  Mostly good for nothing, though.  They run a few cattle. Some of them work here, especially at Kikker.  And Fuer Die Frauen.   "\par
"Now, everyone in Nicholls is a member either of the Nicholls EP church or St.George Catholic Church. We have a few who don't go, but it is still socially expected that you be there on Sunday, one or the other. And we respectfully disagree, whether you are Catholic or EP, but we all back the Bulldogs and we are one town, not two.  And it didn't go over too well when they came out from their camp and went door to door, assuming we were all unsaved heathen. even us at the EP Church. We were worse than the Catholics, because we had rejected God's prophet.  One of our elders went out there and talked to Jake Prophet. That simmered down."\par
"Jake Prophet ran the place, I hear, and made all the decisions. He had no second in command, so to speak, and he was suddenly killed in a plane crash on a mission trip somewhere overseas, I think maybe the Congo. Or Borneo. Somewhere tropical, with lots of jungle. He's buried over there, in the jungle. But it left a big hole in the leadership over there.  They asked another charismatic former EP pastor to give them guidance, but not all of them accepted the fellow, whose name I forget,  and not all who followed that guy kept following him.  The numbers dwindled.  Today they are still out there, but we don't really talk much to them nor they to us. We go about our business and we are polite, but that is about it."\par
"My brother Sam went out there  for some weeks years ago, visiting their services and trying to be friendly, hoping they  could be more part of Nicholls than they had been. He says they have lost their hope but not their vision, sort of biding time until it comes about. They don't have a pastor now, and they are thinking about rejoining the EP.  We are softer now about accepting the "gifts of the Spirit" and don't just look at it as unwarranted excess. But I think there is a lot of work to be done before we would be comfortable together. Culture, more than anything. They have their own."\par
"That does not mean they are completely isolated.  Most of the men work off the property, some of them even in Nicholls. But they generally are quiet about home-life and don't make friends or talk outside work. Abe York is one of them - he and I worked loading lumber at the lumber yard. Good, hard, conscientous, pious and polite fellow.   Quiet and keeps to himself, mostly. He lives out there." \par
Deem stood in the hot shade that afternoon as one by one people came up to him,  bearing their burdens and baring their souls.  They needed someone to talk to, mostly, and this could be a very difficult town to find someone. There was a lot of loneliness, Deem thought. So he listened and spoke little, and learned a lot about Nicholls. It was a town of contradictions: they pulled together and they stayed apart. Veterans either came back and kept their crew cuts for the rest of their lives or grew their hair out and rejected the discipline and order that they had grown up with and had experienced in the military. Most of these wound up leaving the town, and others of the crew cut sort wound up here.  It was not an easy place to be weak or timid. The judgement of the town was harsh and lasting when they thought you could not cut it.  There was no place here for losers, failures, idiots or anyone who did not cut the mustard.  But there was also a lot of grace for the wounded in battle and compassion to those who had come back troubled.  The town looked after its own, even the ones deemed losers, as they were part of the community. This puzzled Deem until he realized what held them together was love, a deep love for their fellows, even though it was buried under a lot of judgement and challenge.  Once you got past the barrier, it was unconditional. Some managed to get past but others did not. Why, Deem did not know.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 