{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 2016 - ?? - ??\par
\i "We looked for peace, but no good came, for a time of healing, but behold, terror."\i0\par
\par
"How are we sinning?" Deem wondered.  Everything should be falling into place; he was hoping for a happily ever after, having come through difficulties he would not have believed.\par
Melanos, the prize bull, was dead.  On a moonlit night someone had shot him with a sniper rifle, and no one came forward to say they heard the shot.  Bullet holes had appeared in the trailers that were left.  The stone houses were too thick for a rifle bullet to penetrate, but every night it seemed a window, one window only, would be shattered somwhere in the middle of the night.  No one at the Ranch knew who was doing this, or why.\par
 The throats of  cattle had been slit as they were in the fields at night. Now they were brought in every night.  \par
It reminded people of the time, years earlier, when the old barn, farrmhouse and outbuildings had been burned in the night by people unknown.  Now the night was menacing and the wide open land hid an unknown enemy. Or enemies.  The Eppers had had enemies before, and the Eppers were still here and all those enemies were not.  They had always prevailed. \par
In the day people were concerned about being shot if they were in the open too long, and there was a great deal of fear.\par
There was also illness, always a concern in closely-packed Epper settlements. Someone had brought in a bad case of influenza.  Many people were down with it, and there had been three deaths, all older people.  \par
Why? This was the human condition, in threat, and they could really not hope to be spared. Some wanted to blame God, an easier thing to do than to live courageously.\par
There was a sense of oncoming doom, of an inevitable apocalypse that would be on them.  This hung over the Ranch and nothing seemed to be shaking it.  The worship team was going tenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, but they were saying it was a strain and there was no breakthrough.  There were prayer watches set up around the clock.  People were having difficulty making it to either worship or prayer on accound of illness and sudden needs that would call them away.  \par
Wilt had spread in the cherry tomato greenhouse and the few that survived were unmarketable.  \par
"Though the fig tree does not blossom and there be no fruit on the vine," Tina Pol was reciting from Habakkuk, but she could not keep her mind on it.  She was dismembering a chicken and could not reach a Bible.  She had that passage memorized, but it was simply not coming.  Her mind wandered.   They'd had a nice stone house for two years, after years in a trailer, and before that, a tent, which she barely remembered from when she was small.  Her whole life had been here, on the Ranch, and for her whole life they had been waiting for a pastor to come and fix all their problems, for another Jake Profim, a man ten feet tall and absolutely wise, a super pastor, a Moses to lead the people of God into a glorious future.  There had been a few misfires over the years, but now it seemed Pastor Futz was here to stay, the real deal, the true blue.  After the initial euphoria a sense of disappointment had set in.  This is it? This is what we have been waiting and hoping for? And nothing was wrong with him, really: he could preach a fine sermon, settle a dispute, teach a class, motivate people.  There was a calm and real relationship with God, but it was underneath, where it could not be hidden.  Some people wanted more surface fire.  But no one wanted the malaise, the sense that something was seriously wrong.  Was it spiritual warfare? Those who were good at the gift of prophecy were not getting any words about anything, as if God was silent.\par
Tina was not one of those seeking the spectacular. She thought of herself as no-nonsense, with a house, children, and a \i jongedamme\i0  in her charge..   She liked things nice and neat and orderly, for the days to continue smoothly, with changes gradual, practically imperceptible and minimal.  She had served as a \i jongedamme\i0  and had gotten married to a fine Epper man, and they were busy raising new little Eppers.  Children, church, kitchen was fine with her. \par
This day she was in her kitchen, with everything in its place and all in order.  That, anyway, was a refuge.  Each pot was bright and shining as it hung; the two cast iron skillets, one that she had inherited from her grandmother, who had inherited it from \i her \i0 grandmother, were properly and precisely hung.  She smiled as her hands moved faster than most people could see, as she had been trained, as she dismembered the freshly killed chicken, one her \i jongedamme\i0  had killed and defeathered as she had been taught, a new skill for her. Now Carly was helping Evan sound out his letters: b and d and p and q were throwing him.  The baby was systematically throwing things out of her crib, and two-year old Anton was just as systematically putting them back. \par
There was an enormous banging noise and the now-awake Tiger, their mastiff, was suddenly barking and growling.  Tina recognized the sound of a gunshot and the whimper and thud  that could only mean one thing: someone had killed their dog to get past him.  Carly looked up in alarm as a stranger burst into the dining room, pistol in hand. He looked around, his pistol moving with his eye along the wall, towards the playpen.\par
That was all it took.   Before he could look back the cleaver was embedded in his skull, and he fell onto the coffee table and rolled onto the floor.  Tina picked up her secondary cleaver and another razor sharp knife and swiftly moved past him. What if there were more? Someone was out there.  \par
"Mrs. Pol, It's Ranch Security," they stayed outside, knowing Epper women. "Are you all right, Mrs. Pol?" they called.\par
"Come on in," she said.\par
It was Officers Warren and Hu, known to her.  They looked at the dead dog and the dead stranger and the crying children.  It was obvious what had happened. Warren kicked the pistol away from the body and checked the pulse.  There was very little blood: the razor-sharp cleaver had penetrated cleanly through the skull and was now stopping any bleeding.\par
"Clear," Warren said into his microphone,"Subject we were pursuing is down.  Negative, we do not need an ambulance.  Subject is dead.   Have someone collect him."\par
"You can put those down," Hu said. She did, putting them on the counter separating the dining area from the kitchen.  \par
"Ma'am, we will need to take some pictures.  Do you mind taking the children somewhere else?"\par
"Carly, please take them to one of the bedrooms." Carly nodded, visibly shaken.  Tina was not.  She would have to discuss undue display of emotions with her \i jongedamme\i0 , obviously, and point out a fruit of the Spirit was self-control. \par
"This guy and two of his friends attempted to break into one of the Kikker warehouses, the one with volatilve chemicals, and ignite it.  They were stopped but made their way down here.  We figure they were planning to take hostages.  They split up: one came here, another next door, and then the third one house down."\par
"Really," Tina heard.  It had not yet sunk in.  They took their pictures.  This one, anyway, had gotten what he asked for. \par
"I dont think they figured on Epper women.  There is a reason the Cossacks left the Epper settlements along. And the Tatars."\par
Tina shrugged. "I want my house back.  This is going to set dinner back.  When will you get him out of here? And the floor will need cleaning.  And poor Tiger. There is work to do. I can't stand around all day chit-chatting.  And that is my cleaver, my best one. I can use my second-best until I get it back, which I hope will be soon."\par
Warren laughed. "You're an Epper woman all right. We will need to take a statement from you and your \i jongedamme\i0 .  We will do that now and they should retrieve the body shortly. I can't say how soon you will get your cleaver back - it looks like it is in pretty deep."\par
"Can I make a statement while I am working on the chicken?" she asked as she returned to the kitchen, and a second later she had her secondary cleaver in hand, as she returned to her work,"I was right here - this is what I was doing when I was interrupted. I dislike interruptions."  Her hands were moving faster than they could see. \par
"We are not going to argue with you," Hu said, eyeing the flash of the cleaver.  Tina had been twenty feet from the man when she had dropped him.\par
\par
"No, I really don't feel any guilt about it," Tina was telling Pastor Futz. "I guess it bothers me that I don't.  I mean, if I were guilty I could be forgiven, but how can I be forgiven when I am not guilty?" She looked down at her knitting.  Even now her hands were moving so fast that her fingers were just a blur to anyone else.  She had been taught how to do this as a \i jongedamme\i0  and the skill served her well.  On one occaision, with deadly force. That was what she was here to talk to Pastor Futz about, after all.\par
"Well, you can't."\par
"I didn't even think about it. I just threw it, and dropped it."\par
"And you are afraid you may do it again?"\par
"Well, yes."\par
Deem inhaled. "You are familiar, perhaps, with the Epper settlement, translated as 'Of the Holy Cross', which was in Crimea?"\par
"Of course. Every Epper child has.  Four hundred Tatar attacked and attempted to enslave everyone.  They killed all the men."\par
"How many Tatar were alive at that point?"\par
"They were reinforced by another hundred, so there were over four hundred."\par
"Four hundred and twelve."\par
"How do we know that?"\par
"Because the Epper women counted the bodies when it was over."\par
"And how many Epper women were there?"\par
"Seventy-five."\par
"And of the Epper women, how many were killed, wounded or enslaved?"\par
"None."\par
"Were they trained warriors?"\par
"The Tatars were.  The women, no."\par
"And how many children were killed, wounded or enslaved?"\par
"None."\par
"And the Tatars left Eppers alone after that?"\par
"Well, no. They tried twice after that."\par
"And what happened?"\par
"Basically the same thing."\par
"So I think you can understand what happened with them in a new way. They were not guilty, either.  Neither did they ever kill again.  But if they had to, they would. And you know that God can use you to protect your family.  You stand in the great line of Epper women.  Think about it that way."\par
"I will.  Thank you.  That is a relief.  And the other two women whose homes were invaded? They also killed.  How are they holding up?"\par
"You know I cannot answer that.  But it might be good to discuss it with them, if the time is ever right.  On the other hand I would not bring it up without need."\par
"Oh, no.  My focus is on my husband and children.  Security asked me if I knew why the man had come. I have no idea. I don't even care.  He got what is coming to him.  We have a new puppy, now.  Tiger died honorably. Life goes on and I plan to forget this.  There are better things to think about.   Curiosity is the devil's playground.  Let Security stop further attacks. It's not my problem."\par
"That's fine.  By the way, have you ever thrown a cleaver before?"\par
"No, never.  I think maybe years of using one has given me a great sense of balance, and my hands are strong.  But more likely it was simply the grace of God. Without Him we can do nothing."\par
"Indeed."\par
"Well, I appreciate your time, but my family is waiting."\par
"Let's close with a short prayer."\par
And they did.\par
\par
"Everyone's shook up," Carly told her when she got home.\par
"Are you?"\par
"Well, yes.  But killing someone does not seem to have bothered you at all."\par
"No. It had to be done.  You do what you have to do.  I see you got all the blood up."\par
"Yes."  Carly looked at her. "They took Tiger, too."\par
"That is fine.  We will need another dog. Is there something else?" \par
"What happens if someone else comes in and tries something again?"\par
"Well, that is less likely, because they probably heard about what happened here. And secondly, what happened  would happen again."\par
"You would throw that again?"\par
"Dear child, I didn't even think about it. I just threw it. You must be strong. Epper women are not weak - the \i jongedamme\i0  program is not designed to build women to live easy lives, because we have never had particularly easy times.  You must support your husband and protect your children.  He will need your strength. If you are not strong, you have nothing to give. And that strength is not yours but God's." They were moving to the bedrooms as they spoke.  Tina wanted to check on the children, who came running to her.  WIth one on each hip and the third hanging on, she looked at Tina's bedmaking, a current challenge.\par
There was a barely visible line and one pillow was slightly off on their bed.\par
"Strip it and make it again," Tina said.  Carly found herself making it to Tina's exacting standards ten times,  and each time there was something wrong, so the bed was stripped and remade.  It had to be made again.  Carly was still learning the trick of "sailing" the  top sheet so that it landed correctly as it was cast from her hands, and she had trouble finishing in thirty seconds, which she knew was a slow time.  Yesterday she had made this bed twenty times, so she was improving.\par
And so life resumed its reassuring cadence, with Tina working on her student. \par
"Will the man come back?" Evan wanted to know.\par
"No. He's dead."\par
"Oh."\par
"Mama, you killed him."\par
"Yes I did.  I will protect you, sweetheart."\par
"Yep," he said, and hugged her legs. That felt better than a hundred pages of John Owen, she thought to herself.   She sketched out what they needed to do next. Husband had heard what had happened and would continue to be protective.  Their new door was far stronger than the old.  He would want to hold her more than usual, which would be nice but they were also behind on the work.  At four and a half Evan still wasn't ready to help a lot, and the help he gave often needed a lot of help, so - here were the potatoes. Onions.  The beef in the drawer was still good.  It was too late to do a slow-pot, so it would all be boiled.  \par
Carly bit her lip as she made the bed again.  \par
"What are the four bedposts?"\par
Carly recited," The four bedposts are the challenges that strengthen us as we serve others. There is the direct demand, the loss of the use of the time for other people, thirdly the seeming unreasonableness of the request,  and lastly, our own personal limits."\par
"Correct.  I saw you bite your lip.  I am thinking things have been too easy for you if you are still biting your lip at this stage."\par
"Yes, ma'am.  Please make my life harder that I can serve stronger and longer."\par
"That's my girl," Tina said, trying to be severe,"And I will."\par
"Thank you, ma'am."\par
"When you are older you will probably tell stories of your tough old teacher in your jongedamme days who killed a man with a cleaver and didnt even blink."\par
"Yes, ma'am.  I believe I will.  I hope to have some good stories of how my life was harder than anyone else's when I was a \i jongedamme\i0 ."\par
"That is enough out of you. Now strip this bed.  I want to see the linens neatly folded, including, of course, the fitted sheet, and then the bed made again. You have two minutes."\par
\par
\par
 \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 