{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green77\blue187;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red155\green0\blue211;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\b\f0\fs22\lang1033 Table of Contents\b0\par

\pard\li720\b  \cf1\b0\i\par
\cf0\i0\par
\b Part Three \b0\par
 \par
1. Mayor Southwark\par
\par
2. Judge Opp Receives a Visitor\cf2\i\par
\par
\cf0\i0 3. Nicholls is Taken \par
\par
4. Nicholls is Freed\cf2\i\par
\cf0\i0\par
5. Ellen Bread \tab\tab  \highlight3\par
\highlight0\par

\pard\par
\ul\b PART THREE \ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf4 Not sure about this summary: Part 3 concerns Deem's wider acceptance in Nicholls, among the Marine and non-Marine community and among the "others" and bringing the three communities (Ranch, Nicholls, trailer park) into one. He breaks down the barriers - their identity is in Christ, not Ranch/town, not Epper/charismatic, not rich/poor.   Deem carries out everything he learned in Part 2 and before he got to Nicholls.\ul\b\par
\cf0\par
\cf2\ulnone\b0\lang9\par
\cf0\lang1033\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 1  Mayor Southwark \ulnone\b0\i\par
\par

\pard\li720\cf1 discovered resistance   \cf2  enemy is now open\cf0\i0\par

\pard\i\par
\i0 Mayor Southwark had been in office ten years.  The previous mayor had been in office only three months when he was jailed and removed from office for failure to pay the contractors on his new house.  He had been corrupt and incompetent, and it had taken years to straighten everything out.  That was now the past, and Southwark considered himself neither corrupt nor incompetent.  He was uncomfortable with the amount of campaign contributions he received from Johnson Bank, and thought that someday that would carry a price, but they had not asked for anything.  He had not opposed their purchase of various things in Nicholls, such as the bank, and did not look too closely into their other activities.  But they had not asked for anything, he told himself.  He was careful, too, not to do anything to provoke their wrath.  But they had never asked for anything.  Sometimes he went to the row of pictures of the mayors of the town and looked at that of Joe Hazel, that incompetent and corrupt predecessor, now in the state penal system, and he looked into his eyes and said, "what a wasted life." There was a row of such pictures from the 1870s, when the first one was photographed, to his own. He'd been mayor ten years, longer than most.  He wondered for a moment how long Johnson Bank would allow that.  They'd never asked for anything, he told himself.  \par
\par
Sitting again, he picked up a pencil.  Number 2.  He thumped it for a minute.  Wasn't this pastor fellow supposed to be here by now?  He was not liking the discussion they would be having.  No, two more minutes.  He glanced through the headlines in the KC Star.  Mostly election news. The presidential election seemed far away and remote here in Nicholls.  Candidates always bypassed the town, even for state races.  They'd had a scout come and ook at Butler's for his candidate to come and drink coffee and mingle with the regular folks, but that scout had gotten himself tossed out the back door into the garbage cans. That was in the 1970s and Nicholls still was avoided. \i\par
\i0\par
People in Nicholls took sides, either with the Ranch or with the Boss.  It was an ugly, unresolvable standoff, until the Boss miscalculated and people realized he didn't care who got hurt.  The mayor was caught in the middle, thinking of the next election more than the present crisis.  Somehow Deem emerges as a leader in this resolution. Johnson also badly overplays his hand. \par
\par
Whiggins is here, opening the door for Deem and standing in the background everywhere, ready to serve.  Southwark knows Whiggins and there is a quiet friction between them that Deem picks up on. \par
\tab\tab\i\par
\i0 Mayor Southwark is angry at the trouble Deem seems to be stirring up and calls him in for a reaming. But Deem is here to pastor, not play the game, not play politics. The mayor views a church as having social utility, but if it is a liability, why have it?\par
\par
There are people, the mayor tells him, who don't like what he is doing. If Deem does not know what is good for him, that is his lookout. The previous pastors were reasonable people who fit into the community and allowed peaceful prosperity. Quiet lives and all that.  Deem says he has to do what God says. He is sure the previous pastors were men of integrity who could not be bought. The mayor attempts to pull Romans 13 on him but Deem responds with he must follow God not man. \par
\par
People could have been hurt in the takeover of the trailer court.  That was foolish and dangerous and bravado.  Mayor Southwark is glad no one got hurt.  But people were hurt financially. Certain people are furious because the trailer point had been a source of profit and Deem has ruined it.  Mayor Southwark admits some of the activities were questionable if not downright illegal, but he takes life as it is,not as he wishes, and other people do so ever more than he does, and Deem has messed things up around here in a big way, and he needs to fix it.  Smooth feathers, calm people down.  There are people at Johnson Bank in Harrisonville who are heavily -- heavily - invested in Nicholls and he urges Deem to go visit any of the Vice Presidents and have a good conversation with them. Deem would learn a few things to his benefit.  Seminary can be idealistic and if he really wants to serve the community they can help him see where he could do the most good, instead of what he has been doing.  Johnson Bank has always been interested in the prosperity of the City of Nicholls and has generously donated to his campaigns for mayor.  \par
\par
He shifts tactics. Mayor Southwark encourages Deem to have the Ranch allow Johson Bank to send a treasure hunting team to the Ranch, but even better, if he could talk to the Pollers and have them tell him or meet people up in Harrisonville for a discussion about it.  The Mayor hints that he is afraid that "outside forces" may provide some encouragement until    they give up the gold and the diamond.  They would at least like the Poller boy and his parents to come in and talk.  Deem has no idea and has never heard that anyone knows anything about a diamond.   He has only heard rumors about the gold.  The mayor tells him about the gold coins.  Deem explains that his purpose at the Ranch is pastoral and has nothing to do with gold.  The mayor says if he is concerned about their welfare out there, he should find out about the gold and report back to him as soon as possible. Things could go much smoother for everyone if the Ranch would sell Kikker Industries.  He has heard there is an interested party.  Ranch people are sadly uninterested in their own welfare, it would seem.  The mayor has to consider everyone's good, and things could go badly for everyone in Nicholls County if they do not sell Kikker Industries.  He is sure Deem understands and is a reasonable person. Perhaps he just needs some time to think it over and realize how reasonable this is. The Mayor is trembling. Mayor Soutwark finally throws him out.    "I will hand it to you. You are made of iron, my man."  "I am not your man," Deem replied, "But thank you."   \par
\par
On exiting Deem sees Weed sitting, waiting for the mayor.  He realizes Weed is an informant - the mayor is angry that Weed came earlier than he should have.  "Futz don't know you're paying me for news," Weed says while Deem is still in hearing. \par
\par
\par
Eliot, who chased Isaiah and Seth and saw Harry die, shows up at Dennis Opp's house.  Dennis is suspicious but agrees to talk to him.  Eliot heard the voice that Seth heard and felt what he could only describe as horror in that ravine, like something evil, out of a horror movie was there.  He's scared and needs to talk, had seen Dennis as his judge on a case where he had been merciful to Eliot, has no one else to turn to.  He is on the run.  Johnson has all his money and Eliot is afraid he will take vengeance for not returning with the treasure or Isaiah at least. Dennis hears Eliot out: the prairie fire had been deliberately set to burn down Snake Woods, on Johnson's orders. Any collateral damage to the Ranch would be find with Johnson. \par
\par
Dennis wonders Johnson is attempting to touch the apple of God's eye in setting himself against the Ranch. Dennis tells Eliot he is also in trouble with God.  Eliot knows it.  He just knows it. So nervous he is sweating. \par
\par
Eliot has nowhere to turn.  Dennis leads him to Christ. Now the pig is friendly - pig had been suspicious of him before, but now he is relaxed.  Eliot notices and Dennis tells him that Attila  is a very spiritual pig.    With a shave and a haircut and new clothes - he had had the long beard, long hair and fatigues look - he looks completely different. He must now learn the ways of the Lord, not the ways of the world.  As he had trusted and obeyed Johnson, so he must now trust and obey God.  God has grace and love, Johnson had neither.\par
\par
Nonetheless Dennis is not completely convinced that this is real.  He does not put it past Johnson to put a spy in his house.  But there is no proof and it is not yet time to see if this is wheat or weed, so he decides to wait until it is clear.\par
\par
 (A funeral and a wedding).  Note that the Pollers are no longer in the burned out Warren.\par
 \par
Despite everything, the Nicholls Epper Church closes.  Deem weeps. Eppers founded their church in the 1870s - they had attempted a colony on land somewhere northeast of Nicholls, but the land could not sustain their settlement: there had been a church here for 150 years.   Chips blamed Deem for the closure.  Hartmann would have kept the church alive, he said.\par

\pard\li1440\par

\pard Deem discovers his amensuensis will be arriving from the denominational headquarters.   Most people attend out at the Ranch, which isn't all that far anyway.  Arson takes out both the little clapboard church and the bigger Epper church, which once again is empty.  \par
\par
Deem rescues Skittles. church at the funeral parlor. \par
\par
 \par
Deem witnessed John Bread rising from the dead during the Nicholls Sunday service, held then at the funeral parlor.  As a result of that untoward and questionable event, the resurrection of John Bread, during a sermon, the denomination sends out someone to be Deem's amensuensis (Matt Kracht, a retired pastor) under the guise of helping a struggling church. Deem is not told he is being investigated, nor that MK actually works for the Committee on Doctrinal Purity, who regarded a resurrection in the Sunday service as out of order and wanted to know if such carryings-on are happening to the point they needed to take action against Deem.  Matt Kracht, exposed, leaves. \par
\par
\lang9 Chips continued to resist Deem, even after the resurrection of John Bread. "He's no St.Paul."  He still wanted someone like Hartmann; no dissuasion. Someone not of concern to the CDP. \lang1033\par
\par
Flat tires in the middle of the night.  Broken windows in town.  Intruders when elders are gone. Deem's apartment is ransacked by someone looking for something.  \par
\par
Phineas Sallow, too old to work but not young enough to die, as he put it, encountered Deem at his seat at the entrance to Kfaar Mayam, where he had a canopy under which he would sit in good weather and watch people.  He called Deem over to him and told him all he knew about Ellen - her past, drugs, sex, the works, including some things he made up then and there. Not material for the wife of a pastor, not someone anyone could look up to - a sinner, not a saint.  Deem challenged him on some of it and he admitted he had made it up: hyperbole, he called it.  Deem said he had heard it all before, and weren't they all sinners saved by grace, and the one who is forgiven more will love more?  And did Phineas have leave to talk like that to Deem? No, he did not.  He was not an elder, had been passed over, and this was pride talking. How dare he talk like that? Had the Lord prompted him?  Phineas admitted it was his own idea, maybe God was looking the other way. God never looks the other way, Deem said. Oh, Phineas replied.  I have been a fool.  You have never spoken a truer word.  I will be silent from now on.  That would be an improvement.  Yes, sir.  Many people were probably thinking that way, though, Deem decided.  Eppers had a long streak of judgementalism instead of grace.  People really needed to get their heads and hearts around the love of God.  Had he been too hard on Phineas?  Maybe. \par
\par
April Bread, who thought of Ellen as some sort of long-lost relative and thus a legitimate target for this sort of thing, gave Ellen a speech about how both she and Deem are losers and two unmarried losers, if they marry, are in a loser marriage, and she is too unstable and he is a pastor and so she is not worthy to marry him, and he should not court from here. He should have been married already.  Simple fact.  Ellen was furious.  The 'holy corrector' backed off and apologize. Deem may not have been courting her before, but he is now. This speech has the opposite effect of intent.\par
\par
Ranch and Nicholls came together against the greater threat of the Boss and his attempted destruction of both Nicholls and the Ranch. Deem was respected both at the Ranch and in town, among the Marines.  \par
\par
\par
\par
 \ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
 It seemed Johnson was furious that the town cleared out the trailer court.  He vowed to get rid of Deem.  Maybe he could exploit his girlfriend. \par
\par
-------------\par
Mrs. Crawford made her way along the sidewalk on South Maple.  There was another prayer meeting at the Epper church, and she did not really care that the distance was further.  It was harder in a walker, but she would do it.  They had taken away her driver's license and her only wheels were the ones on the wheelchair she now needed sometimes at home, when standing was too wearying.  \par
\par
At least the weather was nice.  It was quiet and there was no traffic along the tree-lined street.  Ahead of her she heard a van coming up, coming up too fast.  She noted the tinted windows and the lack of a license plate. No one in Nicholls owned a van. Well, the plumber did, come to think of it, but he had his name and stuff on the side. A few others, but this was none of them. She fumbled in her handbag.  She'd moved here under a different name, provided by the government, with a different backstory due to what she had done during the war.  She told people she had worked in a B-29 plant.  What she had done she could never talk about.  But maybe they, whoever they were, had found her at last.\par
\par
Down the next block the van did a U-turn and came back.  She kept walking in her slow way as it slowed down just opposite her. Yep. The side door popped open and a large man in a mask jumped out.  Her first shot hit him in the knee as he was jumping and he crumpled on the pavement with a groan as the second man landed on top of him. She shot him in the ankle, and they were both down.  Her third shot shattered the passenger window and glass went all over the driver, who was pulling away.  Her fourth shot took out the right rear tire.  It paid to visit the range once a week, she thought to herself.  With satisfaction she watched the van skid into a tree, and the driver stagger out.  He was also wearing a mask, and by now ten armed men had come out of their houses on South Maple.  The driver looked around as they approached and raised his hands in surrender.  He dropped to his knees and intertwined his fingers behind his head.\par
\par
"Don't shoot," he begged. He'd be dead by now if they had opened fire, she thought to herself.  \par
\par
Mrs. Crawford turned her attention to these two.  They were lying on each other and both were trying to get up. That was not helping them at all. \par
\par
"I own your buns, cupcakes. Who sent you?" she demanded. "You don't look like Noks. Who sent you?"\par
\par
For emphasis she waved the foot of her walker over the shot ankle. He saw it and howled.\par
\par
"Talk. I have a short way with people who try to kidnap me. Who sent you?"\par
\par
"It was -"  He wanted his ankle back.  She knew it hurt. \par
\par
"Shut up." The other one was trying to get out from under his buddy on top of him, who was afraid to move. \par
\par
"You shut up.  We're bounty hunters.  We were told to find a soft target and bring him or her in for questioning."\par
\par
"More info. Who sent you?"  She leaned onto the walker foot a tad and the foot went closer to the ankle.  His eyes went wide and almost rolled back into his head.  She had not even touched him.  What a cupcake.\par
\par
"You are no soft target, lady."  This was Cupcake #2.  \par
\par
"Looks like you picked on the wrong old lady, sonny. Who?"\par
\par
Now a police cruiser was collecting the driver.  Another cruiser was pulled over at the opposite end of the street. He then pulled up.\par
\par
"Everything under control, Mrs. Crawford?"\par
\par
"Well, except you gave them my name. You want to take these twinkies?"\par
\par
"Please," they begged,"Get us away from her."\par
\par
They took her statement.  She was five minutes late to prayer meeting, because she took time to reload.  Just in case. \par
\par
------------\par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 2 Judge Opp Receives A Visitor\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 Dennis Opp received a visitor late into the night with a wild story.  Dennis Opp learned all of what Johnson had been planning.\cf1\i     \cf0\i0 A careful and cautious man who could nonetheless act quickly when he needed to, Dennis Opp believed he needed to confirm it before saying anything to anyone else.\par
\par
The \lang9 house Opp lived in fit  the description of Jehoahaz's place. Still had cedar paneling, but the red paint has been painted over.  Long before Dennis acquired it there had been a fire, and years later it had been rebuilt with some of the material that had survived the fire. The plan was the same as the original: a two story great hall running the length of the house with rooms opening onto the hall on both levels, the upper containing a large balcony on both sides.  The absolutely enormous, original limestone fireplace dominated the end across from the double doors, giving it the feel of an Anglo-Saxon mead hall.  But instead of a long table was a conversation pit with comfortable chairs, couch and a salon table, and beyond that was a collection of potted plants taking advantage of the height of the room, and a dining table sat parallel to the massive fire place.  But the fireplace was not the end of the house, as the hall continued beyond it and ended with double doors large enough to haul some serious firewood into the room.  One could easily walk around inside the fireplace and not bump the head, even wth a fairly large fire going at the center.  Dennis Opp seldom if ever had a fire in the thing.  But the blackened insides of the enormous chimney said there had been those who had.  It was the biggest house in Nicholls County and had a history, and had been well maintained and fallen into disrepair more than once.  Some of its occupants in times of disrepair had possibly been those who had burned the most wood.   \par
\par
Dennis liked the place, but disavowed any ostentation associated, as it was, in his view, an overstatement.  If you knew him you would realize the humor of connecting him to anything grandiose.  He liked it for what it was and not for what prestige it might give him, which he cared nothing about.  He had had offers, some amazing, but he had turned them down.  He had turned several of the downstairs rooms into a prodigious library, and he had no idea where else he could put them all.  Retired from the USMC, he had had enough of moving, and so there he was, with everything exactly as he wished, or sometimes, exactly as his wife wished, which could be the same thing, as he loved her and what she wanted he wanted, and it was reciprocal.  They were happy there, and he had installed an elevator.\cf2\i\lang1033\par
\par
\cf0\i0 Dennis was told that Johnson was using Nicholls Bank to launder money from a number of illegal businesses - source was not sure how, but it included drugs, human trafficking, illegal immigration. Nothing contradicted anything Dennis knew about the area and made plausible connections between other facts, some of which were not general knowledge. But was this the truth, or something like a trap?  Dennis wondered. \cf2\i\par
\par
\cf0\i0 Dennis lhad known that the Boss attempted to obtain privately (Ranch) held Kikker Industries for years but had gotten nowhere.  The Ranch had been under IRS hassle since 1976 and all records were sealed. Johnson could get nowhere.  Kikker Industries would not hire anyone from outside the Ranch or Nicholls who is unknown to them, so he could not get agents sent in.  Immune to bribery, women, alcohol, blackmail, espionage, the Ranch provided him no leverage, no foothold, no window of opportunity.  He had moved to Harrisonville specifically for this, and then Johnson heard about the gold coins some kid paid for a banana split with.  And decided all the investigations are a way to get the Ranch shut down and the gold in his hands, even if he can't get Kikker Industries, which he still wanted.   When it was clear that both the gold and Kikker Industries are out of his reach, he set his mind to destroy both.  The pressure he was putting on both did not seem to be working. It seemed to Dennis that he was gong to increase it. \par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 3 Nicholls Is Taken\par
\par
\cf4\ulnone\b0 What is Deem's role here? What is Whiggins doing before he goes up to Harrisonville (puppydogging Deem).\cf0\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
\lang9 Johnson attempted to take over Nicholls, forcing it to sell itself to him. It's discovered that Johnston Bank had bought every loan made in the town and was calling them all in. Businesses close, people are forced to leave their homes, and dozens of bulldozers are brought in and parked around the courthouse.  SWAT-type private security forces guard the bulldozers, numbering more than there are residents in Nicholls. \par
\par
Ty Madison is the good-looking, young, smooth-talking representative on-site from Johnson Bank.  They are there on orders from Johnson Bank, and as soon as they are given the word, they are to demolish every building in Nicholls.  People are served papers telling them their loans have been called in and the bank is collecting on them by repossessing.  About half of the town is demolished, starting with the grocery store and then the hospital and some houses, then some vacant industrial buildings on the northeast side. When they are done up there, the new church is next, Ty says.  There will be no reason to stay in Nicholls.  The industrial and commercial properties will be demolished as well as all the residences.  This backwater will be more valuable vacant, and Johnson is considering building his own industrial park here\par
\par
Katy Poller shows up in legal mode with a cease-and-desist signed by Judge Opp. She points out that the church itself is actually on Ranch property. It may be adverse possession, since it has been seven years, and they cannot legally touch it. In front of townspeople Ty does not try his favorite carrot-or-stick bribe-or-threat:  Ty agrees to get surveyors out to establish the exact property line, which will have to be based on the original survey, but all the maps at hand show that the church is, in fact, on Ranch land.  Ty is thwarted - Johnson had promised him more money the faster he would get it done. \lang1033\par
\par
Whiggins is arrested.  On his own, he went up to Harrisonville "to settle things" with Johnson. He's in the Cass County jail.  His public defender notifies Deem that no one from Nicholls is allowed to visit him. As people from Nicholls, including Deem, may be subpoened to testify because there are allegations Deem sent him up there to make a ruckus, Deem is advised not to discuss the case with anyone.  This was meant to be friendly advice. \par
\par
Chips blamed Deem for all this.  If he hadn't encouraged people to take the trailer court, none of this would have happened. \par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 4 Nicholls Is Freed\par
\par
\cf2\ulnone\b0\lang9\par
\cf0\ul\b\lang1033\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 The town of Nicholls rises up against Johnson.  Southwark and several city council members, along with Nicholls Bank officials, flee north to Harrisonville.  Feds also raid Johnson Bank in Harrisonville: we hear of this remotely.  No one knows where Johnson is. The Marines in town call in their buddies from out of town and the bulldozers and private security people are surrounded.  Now there is a chain-link fence around Courthouse Square.  Some of the private security people are ex-Marines and switch sides in the stand off. There are cat-calls.  Both sides are armed and there are snipers on the surrounding roofs (what's left of them) on both sides.  There are fights on the roof-tops and one section of building roof is "owned" by the Marines, another by the private security people.  There is a tense standoff with weapons everywhere.\par
\par
That night was moonless.  There were shots in the darkness and some screams; the bulldozers were set on fire.  In the early dawn the private security people, those who could, slipped away.  There were casulties on both sides.  \par
\par
Ty woke (he stayed overnight with a few picked men) to find the courthouse square full of smoke from the burning vehicles and dead security people as well as dead civilians. This was totally out of control.  He orders the remaining security people to stand down and leave.  They begin to, to catcalls from the Marines.  But their buses had been burned along with the bulldozers and they were stuck.  Nicholls police reassert control (they had been on the side of the locals after abandoning a sort of neutral position).  They discover that the private security people have barricaded themselves inside the courthouse.  This is just the sort of thing some of the Marines had been trained for in the Corps, and they go into automatic mode, as some of their friends had been killed and wounded, and they take the courthouse but no prisoners inside it. All other private security people flee Nicholls on foot, except for three who stayed with Ty. \par
\par
Ty had guts, anyway, and was determined to see this through.  He attempted to reach Johnson, but there was no cell phone service in Nicholls, and he did not have a sat phone. But he was out of options.  \ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0\lang9 In this atmosphere The Ranch comes in with an offer in which Kikker Industries will pay off all debts, in exchange for the city becoming part of the Ranch, under the Council of Twelve and thus shielded from anything Johnson can do legally.  Some do not want to be part of an Epper settlement, but much of the town agrees to it.  The way Eppers do things is not the same as for a small US town and adjustments must be made.  So Johnson lost all  control in Nicholls. Ty had to agree to the deal.  It was him against what was left of the town and 600 angry fprmer Marines, all armed, in the middle of nowhere  People planned to move in from the Ranch, revitalizing and repopulating Nicholls, but a number of families plan to leave - those who have not yet left. Johnson would get his money back, even if he lost the town.  Maybe that would be some consolation, but Ty did not look forward to that meeting.  Why had he ever agreed to this?  Because Johnson had made it look so good and there was a lot of money for him. But the actual situation was very different. \par
\par
Ty and his remaining forces (Madison Security LLC) leave.\par
\par
\cf2 It's unfair, someone says, that his house and business were destroyed. Others have both their houses and businesses intact.  \par
\par
Why was mine spared and his taken? Life will go on for me but he must leave.\cf0\ul\b\lang1033\par
\par
\cf2\ulnone\b0\lang9 I prefer mercy over justice every time.\tab Why does it seem that mercy to other people is always injustice to me? Why do I have trouble seeing it as mercy to me?  Love means laying aside justice for myself for the sake of another.  It seems to be a zero sum on earth but I think God rewards it, maybe not immediately and maybe not even in an identifiable way, but God is just: what we give up for the sake of another cheerfully will be restored to us many times over.  So I would prefer to seek mercy for another rather than justice for myself.\par
\cf0\ul\b\lang1033\par
\par
\par
Chapter 5 Ellen Bread\par
\par

\pard\li720\ulnone\b0  \cf1\i\par
\cf0\i0  Attack on Hair Bair \cf2\i  \cf0\i0 At the beginning, Ellen is lured out of the Ranch by her mother and is turned over to Eddie, who locks her in his bar's basement for collection by Johnson.\par
\cf2\i\par

\pard\cf0\par
\ul\b\i0\par
\ulnone\b0 Deem bailed Whiggins out of jail. Now Deem discovered that he was being held on other charges as well, all in Missouri.  He is told not to leave Cass or Nicholls Counties or he would be reincarcerated without the chance of bail.  Deem is not interested in what the other charges are.  He said so. Whiggins heard about the kidnapping in jail and told Deem he knew where Ellen was.  \cf2\i  Why is he the hero here [we need to include the fact the Marines had taken him under their wing in regards to hand-to-hand combat and he'd been working out.]  \cf0\ul\b\i0\par
\par
\cf4\ulnone\b0 Deem rescued Ellen from Eddie. Whiggins joined in the fight, although he said that will be the end of him being out of jail if anyone ever finds out about this. In the fight the bar begins burning; Ellen asks for a catsup package when Deem returns to the car, and he goes back into the burning bar, fights some of the guys again, and leaves with the catsup packet.  She asks about mustard.  He looks at her. Never mind, she says.  They leave, pursued.  They break the pursuit.   \par
\par
   Johnson appears at the Ranch, now out of flunkies except for the one. Mike Smirnov, catches Deem, Isaiah, Whiggins and Ellen together. Isaiah leads them to where he found the coins, now a large sinkhole. \par
\par
Deem is ordered to climb into the sinkhole, which would be certain death, and find the diamond or gold or something. Johnson pulls out a revolver.  Johnson threatened to shoot Whiggins and Ellen if Deem did not comply. Deem shrugged and began climbing down into the sinkhole.  \par
\par
Whiggins goes for Johnson's revolver, which he has produced. "Vodka, get him," Johnson snarls at Mike Smirnov, who only stands there, and then shakes his head. Johnson turns his gun on Smirnov - Whiggins leaps on him as they slide partly into the sinkhole. Johnson evades him, and they both struggle on the slippery slope. Smirnov pulls Deem and Ellen away from the collapsing edge.   \i  \i0 Johnson thinks he sees the diamond in the sinkhole, loses his footing and falls in.  Whiggins manages to escape the sinkhole.  Where is Isaiah? He is somehow at the top of the cliff. \par
\cf0\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0 "The cry goes up from Jerusalem" - there is a call to pray at the Ranch because of the things that are happening.  But things only get worse.  In the cemetary near Hair Bair at night four bodies are dug up and the bones cast aside: someone is searching graves.  The bones are left in the sun and the wind: the Sheriff views it as a crime scene, cordons it off and leaves it like that for weeks.  One of the robbed graves is that of Karl Sallow, leader of the false prophets in the 1970s. Bones thought to be his have turned black, and they quickly decompose with a horrid stench.  Simon Brot's grave is untouched.  By the time the Sheriff makes it back with a forensic investigator, the bones have all decayed or have been scattered by wild animals. Only three skulls, and some hand and foot bones were left: little to re-bury.  As they had put a guard on the cemetary, no more graves were disturbed after that first night. Other graveyards receive nighttime visitors, but those graveyards were guarded and the visitors left before they could do anything.  One visitor left a shovel as he fled.  \par
\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0 Deem is betrayed by his amaneunsis,  who is there on behalf of the CDP and sent after the man is resurrected.\par
\par
The town-church disbands, briefly. Deem weeps uncotnrollably. The elders look at him like he is nuts.  They must have hearts of stone, not caring for the lost, for what has been, for a dead church. Something has been lost, he says, and it is right to mourn and grieve over it.  This pierces their hearts.  \par
\par
The Epper church in town starts up again, sort of like a multi-site from the Ranch.  They get their old, big building back. In the background are prayer meetings, which the elders do not attend and wonder at Deem for attending.  Prayer is fine, but don't overdo it. \par
\par
Natalie fits in here. \cf1 Does she?  How is she central to the story?\par
\par
\cf0 Deem receives a threatening phone call from an unknown.  Deem knows where the treasure is, or can find out.  Or his church is toast.  They will be in touch with him. Click. \par
\par
 The church was torched, again, in the night. This time it was burned to the ground.  From now on they meet in the high school auditorium.  There were too many to meet in the funeral home, which was now unwilling to take them after the "spectacle". They had also gotten threats.  Who threatens a funeral home?  But that was life. \par
\par
 \par
\par
Pollers are still setting up their new house. Ellen is kidnapped by her mother, brought to Eddie (it's on the orders of Johnson, who also says he wants her for himself and no one is to touch her) and rescued by Deem, who discovers his self-defense training by the Bear has come in handy.  Weed, stoned, is discovered at Eddie's place when Deem arrives.  He is no longer welcome back at the Ranch after this. He sort of ineffectually tries to fight but wanders outside instead.\par
\par

\pard\li720 "I feel so stupid," she said,"exposed, like a woman caught in adultery whose skirts are stripped off."\par
\par
"Quite the Biblical image: Hosea, I think.  But here it would seem to be a little extreme," Deem replied. "Stupidity is not faithlessness."\par
\par
"Does that really help?" Ellen looked out the window at the flat, dreary world.\par
\par
"Consider that one day they will be fully exposed, stripped, humiliated.  Their adultery against God will be exposed for the whole world to see.  We are all stupid, at times, and in this case only a few people knew about it, and I think God is using it to bring about good.  They will have no chance, ever, to feel better about their situation. Forever exposed, forever shamed, forever unable to live it down, outlast it or avoid it."\par
\par
"You preacher man, you."\par
\par
"I have dealt with a lot of shame and humiliation in my time. Believe me, I know what it feels like. I am not speaking theoretically or dogmatically, just from what I have come to realize."\par
\par
"So you can know something and not realize it."\par
\par
"Definitely. Head knowledge as opposed to it being real. Real-iz-ed. Made real.  And God is not mad at you.  Their situation is entirely different."\par
\par
"I feel sorry for my mom.  Despite everything she has done."\par
\par
"I believe it."\par
\par
"No advice, preacher man?"\par
\par
"Unsolicited advice is rarely welcome.  You already know about forgiving, praying, moving on."\par
\par
"Yes.  but now it is a little more real.  To use your word."\par
\par
"It's not my word. I didn't invent it."  \par
\par

\pard\par
A bar fist fight scene between Ranch people and Eddie's hoods, in which the bar catches fire and is burning.  Ellen, not realizing what is happening, asks for a ketchup packet. Without a word Deem gets out of the car and goes back in, gets in ANOTHER fight in the burning building from the rack, and makes his way out.  "I don't like this brand," she says. "Live with it." he replies. She back as they leave, "Oh. This will work."\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Chapter 6 Attack on Hair Bair\cf0\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 As a precaution the Ranch has moved everyone out of the trailers.  That does not stop a 3 AM raid in which automatic rifle fire rips up the trailers, which are then set on fire. Hearing the gunfire, ex-Marines from Nicholls block Main Street and man the barricade. Ranch Security chases the shooters back over the fence, but they have vehicles and flee. Ranch Security gives chase.They attempt to knock the barricade aside with their truck, get stuck and begin shooting. They are killed.   \par
\par
All the trailers are destroyed. \par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Chapter 7 Final Chapter\cf0\ulnone\par
\par
\b0 Eddie and his goons try to find Ellen in a nighttime raid on the Ranch but are caught.  This leaves the Boss without operatives on the ground. He has people elsewhere but no one who knows the area, and he prefers that no one knows about aspects of his business beyond their immediate concern. He decides he has to handle things himself as everyone else is incompetent.\par
\par
He has Mike Smirnoff and Weed drive him in, past security, on the pretext of visiting his parents. Both are known. The boss is hidden in the back seat.\par
\par
Weed knows where to find Deem, and Ellen.  He forces them to go with Weed, Mike and him and Mike down to the sinkhole.\par
\par
----\par
Do you really think there are people God has devoted to destruction? Ellen asks Deem. As in, created specifically in order to damn them?  How does that fit in with the idea of God is love?  God is also sovereign and just, and God is love, not love is God.  Our understanding of God's love is in itself an anthropomorphism.  So we cannot really know it? Ellen asks.  We can, Deem replies, but only in a limited way.\par
\par
Johnson overhears this. If there is a God, he is welcome to damn me. I want no part of him. \par
\par
Case in point, Deem says.  Like an author, God can create a despicable character only to destroy him as part of the overall plot.  And the author may actually be fond of that character, and yet he is doomed.  We only have free will inside of the greater story. We are carrried along by all the history that has ever happened, and by the hand of God who rules and directs all things.\par
\par
You will be doing theology to your death, Johnson snarls. Better than anything else, Deem retorts. \par
\par
--\par
 If Deem doesn't come back up the sinkhole with the diamond he will shoot Ellen.  Deem looks down the long unstable slope to the hole, the bottom of which cannot be seen.  He attempts to get the gun from Johnson, who, even though he is very old, beats him with the pistol.  Mike grabs Johnson.  They wrestle and fight as they slide into the hole - I thought you were loyal - my loyalties were wrong - then I hope you die - Johnson tries to turn the gun on Mike as they slide - the gun goes off in the depths after the two are no longer visible - there is a roar as more dirt and rocks fall into the hole on top of them, and Deem and Ellen escape.  Weed is totally useless for either side here. \par
\par
 \ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
Ellen finally agrees to marry Deem. He has risked a lot for her, something no one has ever done. They walk past the cemetary and read off names from tombstones, including Simon Brot's. It gives her a sense of continuity, eternity: someday she will be buried, perhaps here.    What secrets are sealed by the lips of the dead, she wonders, and what is it I can do today that will last forever? What did they leave behind, this Ranch, and people who are forgetting who they were?  Cemetaries make her pensive. Sad so many have died already, as the Ranch is not all that old.  Many here are older than the Ranch.  They watch someone jackhammer out a grave using the old rock pick. The legendary Joyce Dunbar had found it long before either of them were born, and with the care Eppers gave equipment, it probably would outlast both of them. Would the Ranch? Such things were in God's hands, not theirs; best to keep them there in faith. \par
\par
 -------\par
 \par
 \par
how are the Ranch, Nicholls and the trailer court all in a state of crisis and how is Deem the solution to their problems by linking them? Perhaps the Council of 12 is confronted with their own authority and it overextension as Erastian and ensuing evils.  Nicholls has fossilized, the trailer court has devolved to despotism by organized crime, and the leadership model the Ranch is using (one eldership over everyone) is not working.  They want a structure, it would seem, of a bishop and presbytery and then a pastor and elders in each settlement.    But that is not clear and they certainly do not presume to create a pastor, let alone a bishop. Some settlements have created boards, but are uncomfortable calling them sessions as they want the involvement of a bishop. \par
\par
Obviously Eppers do not separate civil and ecclesiastical functions as in the WCF.  With the Eppers the church seems to have swallowed the state.  How does their dual structure of bishops and elders answer this?  It is too neat to say that the bishops handle the religious and the elders the civil matters.  Instead it is a mix.  From time to time the presbytery or the elders of a church may employ the power of the sword, never the bishop or the pastor, yet those operating as civil magistrates may not be pastors, elders or bishops. The 'administrator' such as John Cassell can hold such authority - but his office is dependent on the church.  So John is a magistrate per chapter 23.  The elders cannot order him to do anything, they can only hire and fire him, which forces them to consider everything he is doing rather than a single issue. At the same time they approve or disapprove his budget and, if necessary, line items. \par
\par
Historically administrators have been appointed by bishops, chosen by presbyteries, sessions, and even elected by and from the people of a church.  So there are administrators both at the local level and at the level of the presbytery.  Eppers have no markedformal organization above that of presbyteries. The denomination supports the seminary, relief and mission work, and committees, such as the unfortunate Committee on Doctrinal Purity. Yet there is an archbishop, and an arch-administrator, whose roles are limited to negotiating and resolving disputes, but never by decree, pronouncement or via arbitration.  Deacons typically report to the adminiistrator, and the administrator to the elders (including the pastor). The archbishop may call a conclave of all bishops at the request of any bishop, and he has no veto power.  The bishops decide what will be necessary for any issue to be approved, which can vary depending on the issue. \par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
\par
Nicholls is like Jeremiah's Judah in contrast to the trailer court's Israel or place of casting out and shame, the proud city versus those who are looked down on, many of whom are not the criminals they are thought to be over in Nicholls.  It's poor and it's where a certain element is allowed to live, but it's also where other elements live who are not wanted in the pristine city. If you don't cut it in Nicholls, either you leave the area, or you wind up there.  Deem is drawn to it. It is the third community Deem draws together as he works on police outreach to them and standard community outreach to them.  It does not all go well.\par
\par
\par
\par
The never-ending legal hassles with the feds and the state is actually a protection against Johnson, who cannot get records even as he talks to state and federal agencies.  As public citizens they recoil from his flashy, overly rich condenscension of them and gross attempts at bribery and other things that would possibly work in private industry, and have for him, but not here. He has alienated government, which he does not understand. The agencies will not help him. But the Ranch legal staff is pretty good, and he underestimates a certain Katie Poller and others as he considers this ramshackle collection of tralers (he visited the south end with Ivanovich, once, and scoffed at the church service) and figures they are no match for him.  People picked up at church that there is evil here, without specifying it is him.  In any case he is wholly unmoved, as if he were a vessel doomed to destruction.    \par
\par
auditory descriptions more than visual: conversation as the main method of description and revealing of personalities\par
 \par
depth of sin and forgiveness - maybe dealing with issues and patterns of sin, not just the actual sin but structures and choices that give rise to sin, damage in the identity: patterns of poverty, autism, homosexuality, transgenderism, racism, sexism, prejudice, alienations of all kinds. Where does grace intersect our lives? And some people make stupid decisions and reap the consequences - are there enough of them?\par
   \par
  \par
 \par
Deem unites  the two very different cultures, the Nicholls Marines and the Ranch, which has a Jesus people hippie feel that I have not really brought out, just that they are hardworkers.  Deem makes observations about other people that really apply to himself, such as the deacon being a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief.\par
 Isaiah/Deem/Ellen??  Deem sees her as untouchable, Donna Gratia, far above him.  \par
\par
\par
 read through, continuity, repetition. irrelevant, improve focus, sharpness, interest, details; bring out characters.      self-control vs treasure should be a theme; loss of lesser things for gain at a higher level a subtheme. Perhaps some Jim ELiot quotes. \par
 \par
Crazy Harry and the boss are parallels, on different scales.  Crazy Harry falls into the sinkhole at the end of section 2, and Deem thinks his troubles are over, not realizing that the Boss is behind Crazy Harry.   Crazy Harry should foreshadow the Boss but in contrast Crazy Harry is more of the world, and the Boss of the devil.  Perhaps Part 1 should be against the flesh, then, whether in the Christians who fight it as the redeemed do, or in the tag-alongs?\par
\tab counterpoint to treasure is renouncing the worthless, even setting counterfires \tab against the coming judgement: CH epitomizes this\par
\tab someone who is indifferent to any kind of treasure. Natalie earlier?  \par
\cf4\par
Still valid?\par

\pard\li720 The story is disjointed.  Times don't line up. Town is too negative. The sinkhole is not tying any of these loose strands up. Some should go. There are too many unresolved questions, like how do all these things get resolved?    \tab there are still time sequence problems and too many loose ends\par
\cf0\par

\pard judgement is coming - how can we separate out the stubble and straw that will be burned up and be preserved through the fire? The prairie fire is there to express such judgement and an opportunity for Isaiah's pa to use it as an object lesson to build his life right, not on or with straw, on a solid foundation.  True treasure passes through the fire. \par
======\par
\par
}
 