{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green255\blue0;\red155\green0\blue211;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green77\blue187;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\li720\b\f0\fs22\lang1033  \b0\tab  \highlight1\par
\highlight0\par

\pard\par
\ul\b PART THREE \ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf2 Not sure about this summary: Part 3 concerns Deem's wider acceptance in Nicholls, among the Marine and non-Marine community and among the "others" and bringing the three communities (Ranch, Nicholls, trailer park) into one. He breaks down the barriers - their identity is in Christ, not Ranch/town, not Epper/charismatic, not rich/poor.   Deem carries out everything he learned in Part 2 and before he got to Nicholls.\ul\b\par
\cf0\par
\cf3\ulnone\b0\lang9  \cf0\i\lang1033\par

\pard\li720\cf4 discovered resistance   \cf3  enemy is now open\cf0\i0\par

\pard\i\par
\i0 Mayor Southwark had been in office ten years.  The previous mayor had been in office only three months when he was jailed and removed from office for failure to pay the contractors on his new house.  He had been corrupt and incompetent, and it had taken years to straighten everything out.  That was now the past, and Southwark considered himself neither corrupt nor incompetent.  He was uncomfortable with the amount of campaign contributions he received from Johnson Bank, and thought that someday that would carry a price, but they had not asked for anything.  He had not opposed their purchase of various things in Nicholls, such as the bank, and did not look too closely into their other activities.  But they had not asked for anything, he told himself.  He was careful, too, not to do anything to provoke their wrath.  But they had never asked for anything.  Sometimes he went to the row of pictures of the mayors of the town and looked at that of Joe Hazel, that incompetent and corrupt predecessor, now in the state penal system, and he looked into his eyes and said, "what a wasted life." There was a row of such pictures from the 1870s, when the first one was photographed, to his own. He'd been mayor ten years, longer than most.  He wondered for a moment how long Johnson Bank would allow that.  They'd never asked for anything, he told himself.  \par
\par
Sitting again, he picked up a pencil.  Number 2.  He thumped it for a minute.  Wasn't this pastor fellow supposed to be here by now?  He was not liking the discussion they would be having.  No, two more minutes.  He glanced through the headlines in the KC Star.  Mostly election news. The presidential election seemed far away and remote here in Nicholls.  Candidates always bypassed the town, even for state races.  They'd had a scout come and ook at Butler's for his candidate to come and drink coffee and mingle with the regular folks, but that scout had gotten himself tossed out the back door into the garbage cans. That was in the 1970s and Nicholls still was avoided. \i\par
\i0\par
People in Nicholls took sides, either with the Ranch or with the Boss.  It was an ugly, unresolvable standoff, until the Boss miscalculated and people realized he didn't care who got hurt.  The mayor was caught in the middle, thinking of the next election more than the present crisis.  Somehow Deem emerges as a leader in this resolution. Johnson also badly overplays his hand. \par
\par
Whiggins is here, opening the door for Deem and standing in the background everywhere, ready to serve.  Southwark knows Whiggins and there is a quiet friction between them that Deem picks up on. \par
\tab\tab\i\par
\i0 Mayor Southwark is angry at the trouble Deem seems to be stirring up and calls him in for a reaming. But Deem is here to pastor, not play the game, not play politics. The mayor views a church as having social utility, but if it is a liability, why have it?\par
\par
There are people, the mayor tells him, who don't like what he is doing. If Deem does not know what is good for him, that is his lookout. The previous pastors were reasonable people who fit into the community and allowed peaceful prosperity. Quiet lives and all that.  Deem says he has to do what God says. He is sure the previous pastors were men of integrity who could not be bought. The mayor attempts to pull Romans 13 on him but Deem responds with he must follow God not man. \par
\par
People could have been hurt in the takeover of the trailer court.  That was foolish and dangerous and bravado.  Mayor Southwark is glad no one got hurt.  But people were hurt financially. Certain people are furious because the trailer point had been a source of profit and Deem has ruined it.  Mayor Southwark admits some of the activities were questionable if not downright illegal, but he takes life as it is,not as he wishes, and other people do so ever more than he does, and Deem has messed things up around here in a big way, and he needs to fix it.  Smooth feathers, calm people down.  There are people at Johnson Bank in Harrisonville who are heavily -- heavily - invested in Nicholls and he urges Deem to go visit any of the Vice Presidents and have a good conversation with them. Deem would learn a few things to his benefit.  Seminary can be idealistic and if he really wants to serve the community they can help him see where he could do the most good, instead of what he has been doing.  Johnson Bank has always been interested in the prosperity of the City of Nicholls and has generously donated to his campaigns for mayor.  \par
\par
He shifts tactics. Mayor Southwark encourages Deem to have the Ranch allow Johson Bank to send a treasure hunting team to the Ranch, but even better, if he could talk to the Pollers and have them tell him or meet people up in Harrisonville for a discussion about it.  The Mayor hints that he is afraid that "outside forces" may provide some encouragement until    they give up the gold and the diamond.  They would at least like the Poller boy and his parents to come in and talk.  Deem has no idea and has never heard that anyone knows anything about a diamond.   He has only heard rumors about the gold.  The mayor tells him about the gold coins.  Deem explains that his purpose at the Ranch is pastoral and has nothing to do with gold.  The mayor says if he is concerned about their welfare out there, he should find out about the gold and report back to him as soon as possible. Things could go much smoother for everyone if the Ranch would sell Kikker Industries.  He has heard there is an interested party.  Ranch people are sadly uninterested in their own welfare, it would seem.  The mayor has to consider everyone's good, and things could go badly for everyone in Nicholls County if they do not sell Kikker Industries.  He is sure Deem understands and is a reasonable person. Perhaps he just needs some time to think it over and realize how reasonable this is. The Mayor is trembling. Mayor Soutwark finally throws him out.    "I will hand it to you. You are made of iron, my man."  "I am not your man," Deem replied, "But thank you."   \par
\par
On exiting Deem sees Weed sitting, waiting for the mayor.  He realizes Weed is an informant - the mayor is angry that Weed came earlier than he should have.  "Futz don't know you're paying me for news," Weed says while Deem is still in hearing. \par
\par
\par
Eliot, who chased Isaiah and Seth and saw Harry die, shows up at Dennis Opp's house.  Dennis is suspicious but agrees to talk to him.  Eliot heard the voice that Seth heard and felt what he could only describe as horror in that ravine, like something evil, out of a horror movie was there.  He's scared and needs to talk, had seen Dennis as his judge on a case where he had been merciful to Eliot, has no one else to turn to.  He is on the run.  Johnson has all his money and Eliot is afraid he will take vengeance for not returning with the treasure or Isaiah at least. Dennis hears Eliot out: the prairie fire had been deliberately set to burn down Snake Woods, on Johnson's orders. Any collateral damage to the Ranch would be find with Johnson. \par
\par
Dennis wonders Johnson is attempting to touch the apple of God's eye in setting himself against the Ranch. Dennis tells Eliot he is also in trouble with God.  Eliot knows it.  He just knows it. So nervous he is sweating. \par
\par
Eliot has nowhere to turn.  Dennis leads him to Christ. Now the pig is friendly - pig had been suspicious of him before, but now he is relaxed.  Eliot notices and Dennis tells him that Attila  is a very spiritual pig.    With a shave and a haircut and new clothes - he had had the long beard, long hair and fatigues look - he looks completely different. He must now learn the ways of the Lord, not the ways of the world.  As he had trusted and obeyed Johnson, so he must now trust and obey God.  God has grace and love, Johnson had neither.\par
\par
Nonetheless Dennis is not completely convinced that this is real.  He does not put it past Johnson to put a spy in his house.  But there is no proof and it is not yet time to see if this is wheat or weed, so he decides to wait until it is clear.\par
\par
 (A funeral and a wedding).  Note that the Pollers are no longer in the burned out Warren.\par
 \par
Despite everything, the Nicholls Epper Church closes.  Deem weeps. Eppers founded their church in the 1870s - they had attempted a colony on land somewhere northeast of Nicholls, but the land could not sustain their settlement: there had been a church here for 150 years.   Chips blamed Deem for the closure.  Hartmann would have kept the church alive, he said.\par

\pard\li1440\par

\pard Deem discovers his amensuensis will be arriving from the denominational headquarters.   Most people attend out at the Ranch, which isn't all that far anyway.  Arson takes out both the little clapboard church and the bigger Epper church, which once again is empty.  \par
\par
Deem rescues Skittles. church at the funeral parlor. \par
\par
 \par
Deem witnessed John Bread rising from the dead during the Nicholls Sunday service, held then at the funeral parlor.  As a result of that untoward and questionable event, the resurrection of John Bread, during a sermon, the denomination sends out someone to be Deem's amensuensis (Matt Kracht, a retired pastor) under the guise of helping a struggling church. Deem is not told he is being investigated, nor that MK actually works for the Committee on Doctrinal Purity, who regarded a resurrection in the Sunday service as out of order and wanted to know if such carryings-on are happening to the point they needed to take action against Deem.  Matt Kracht, exposed, leaves. \par
\par
\lang9 Chips continued to resist Deem, even after the resurrection of John Bread. "He's no St.Paul."  He still wanted someone like Hartmann; no dissuasion. Someone not of concern to the CDP. \lang1033\par
\par
Flat tires in the middle of the night.  Broken windows in town.  Intruders when elders are gone. Deem's apartment is ransacked by someone looking for something.  \par
\par
Phineas Sallow, too old to work but not young enough to die, as he put it, encountered Deem at his seat at the entrance to Kfaar Mayam, where he had a canopy under which he would sit in good weather and watch people.  He called Deem over to him and told him all he knew about Ellen - her past, drugs, sex, the works, including some things he made up then and there. Not material for the wife of a pastor, not someone anyone could look up to - a sinner, not a saint.  Deem challenged him on some of it and he admitted he had made it up: hyperbole, he called it.  Deem said he had heard it all before, and weren't they all sinners saved by grace, and the one who is forgiven more will love more?  And did Phineas have leave to talk like that to Deem? No, he did not.  He was not an elder, had been passed over, and this was pride talking. How dare he talk like that? Had the Lord prompted him?  Phineas admitted it was his own idea, maybe God was looking the other way. God never looks the other way, Deem said. Oh, Phineas replied.  I have been a fool.  You have never spoken a truer word.  I will be silent from now on.  That would be an improvement.  Yes, sir.  Many people were probably thinking that way, though, Deem decided.  Eppers had a long streak of judgementalism instead of grace.  People really needed to get their heads and hearts around the love of God.  Had he been too hard on Phineas?  Maybe. \par
\par
April Bread, who thought of Ellen as some sort of long-lost relative and thus a legitimate target for this sort of thing, gave Ellen a speech about how both she and Deem are losers and two unmarried losers, if they marry, are in a loser marriage, and she is too unstable and he is a pastor and so she is not worthy to marry him, and he should not court from here. He should have been married already.  Simple fact.  Ellen was furious.  The 'holy corrector' backed off and apologize. Deem may not have been courting her before, but he is now. This speech has the opposite effect of intent.\par
\par
Ranch and Nicholls came together against the greater threat of the Boss and his attempted destruction of both Nicholls and the Ranch. Deem was respected both at the Ranch and in town, among the Marines.  \par
\par
\par
\par
 \ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
 It seemed Johnson was furious that the town cleared out the trailer court.  He vowed to get rid of Deem.  Maybe he could exploit his girlfriend. \par
\par
-------------\par
Mrs. Crawford made her way along the sidewalk on South Maple.  There was another prayer meeting at the Epper church, and she did not really care that the distance was further.  It was harder in a walker, but she would do it.  They had taken away her driver's license and her only wheels were the ones on the wheelchair she now needed sometimes at home, when standing was too wearying.  \par
\par
At least the weather was nice.  It was quiet and there was no traffic along the tree-lined street.  Ahead of her she heard a van coming up, coming up too fast.  She noted the tinted windows and the lack of a license plate. No one in Nicholls owned a van. Well, the plumber did, come to think of it, but he had his name and stuff on the side. A few others, but this was none of them. She fumbled in her handbag.  She'd moved here under a different name, provided by the government, with a different backstory due to what she had done during the war.  She told people she had worked in a B-29 plant.  What she had done she could never talk about.  But maybe they, whoever they were, had found her at last.\par
\par
Down the next block the van did a U-turn and came back.  She kept walking in her slow way as it slowed down just opposite her. Yep. The side door popped open and a large man in a mask jumped out.  Her first shot hit him in the knee as he was jumping and he crumpled on the pavement with a groan as the second man landed on top of him. She shot him in the ankle, and they were both down.  Her third shot shattered the passenger window and glass went all over the driver, who was pulling away.  Her fourth shot took out the right rear tire.  It paid to visit the range once a week, she thought to herself.  With satisfaction she watched the van skid into a tree, and the driver stagger out.  He was also wearing a mask, and by now ten armed men had come out of their houses on South Maple.  The driver looked around as they approached and raised his hands in surrender.  He dropped to his knees and intertwined his fingers behind his head.\par
\par
"Don't shoot," he begged. He'd be dead by now if they had opened fire, she thought to herself.  \par
\par
Mrs. Crawford turned her attention to these two.  They were lying on each other and both were trying to get up. That was not helping them at all. \par
\par
"I own your buns, cupcakes. Who sent you?" she demanded. "You don't look like Noks. Who sent you?"\par
\par
For emphasis she waved the foot of her walker over the shot ankle. He saw it and howled.\par
\par
"Talk. I have a short way with people who try to kidnap me. Who sent you?"\par
\par
"It was -"  He wanted his ankle back.  She knew it hurt. \par
\par
"Shut up." The other one was trying to get out from under his buddy on top of him, who was afraid to move. \par
\par
"You shut up.  We're bounty hunters.  We were told to find a soft target and bring him or her in for questioning."\par
\par
"More info. Who sent you?"  She leaned onto the walker foot a tad and the foot went closer to the ankle.  His eyes went wide and almost rolled back into his head.  She had not even touched him.  What a cupcake.\par
\par
"You are no soft target, lady."  This was Cupcake #2.  \par
\par
"Looks like you picked on the wrong old lady, sonny. Who?"\par
\par
Now a police cruiser was collecting the driver.  Another cruiser was pulled over at the opposite end of the street. He then pulled up.\par
\par
"Everything under control, Mrs. Crawford?"\par
\par
"Well, except you gave them my name. You want to take these twinkies?"\par
\par
"Please," they begged,"Get us away from her."\par
\par
They took her statement.  She was five minutes late to prayer meeting, because she took time to reload.  Just in case. \par
\par
------------\par
\par
\par
 \par
}
 