{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl ;\red155\green0\blue211;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\b\f0\fs22\lang1033  \b0  \b\par
\par
\b0 Eddie and his goons try to find Ellen in a nighttime raid on the Ranch but are caught.  This leaves the Boss without operatives on the ground. He has people elsewhere but no one who knows the area, and he prefers that no one knows about aspects of his business beyond their immediate concern. He decides he has to handle things himself as everyone else is incompetent.\par
\par
He has Mike Smirnoff and Weed drive him in, past security, on the pretext of visiting his parents. Both are known. The boss is hidden in the back seat.\par
\par
Weed knows where to find Deem, and Ellen.  He forces them to go with Weed, Mike and him and Mike down to the sinkhole.\par
\par
----\par
Do you really think there are people God has devoted to destruction? Ellen asks Deem. As in, created specifically in order to damn them?  How does that fit in with the idea of God is love?  God is also sovereign and just, and God is love, not love is God.  Our understanding of God's love is in itself an anthropomorphism.  So we cannot really know it? Ellen asks.  We can, Deem replies, but only in a limited way.\par
\par
Johnson overhears this. If there is a God, he is welcome to damn me. I want no part of him. \par
\par
Case in point, Deem says.  Like an author, God can create a despicable character only to destroy him as part of the overall plot.  And the author may actually be fond of that character, and yet he is doomed.  We only have free will inside of the greater story. We are carrried along by all the history that has ever happened, and by the hand of God who rules and directs all things.\par
\par
You will be doing theology to your death, Johnson snarls. Better than anything else, Deem retorts. \par
\par
--\par
 If Deem doesn't come back up the sinkhole with the diamond he will shoot Ellen.  Deem looks down the long unstable slope to the hole, the bottom of which cannot be seen.  He attempts to get the gun from Johnson, who, even though he is very old, beats him with the pistol.  Mike grabs Johnson.  They wrestle and fight as they slide into the hole - I thought you were loyal - my loyalties were wrong - then I hope you die - Johnson tries to turn the gun on Mike as they slide - the gun goes off in the depths after the two are no longer visible - there is a roar as more dirt and rocks fall into the hole on top of them, and Deem and Ellen escape.  Weed is totally useless for either side here. \par
\par
 \ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
Ellen finally agrees to marry Deem. He has risked a lot for her, something no one has ever done. They walk past the cemetary and read off names from tombstones, including Simon Brot's. It gives her a sense of continuity, eternity: someday she will be buried, perhaps here.    What secrets are sealed by the lips of the dead, she wonders, and what is it I can do today that will last forever? What did they leave behind, this Ranch, and people who are forgetting who they were?  Cemetaries make her pensive. Sad so many have died already, as the Ranch is not all that old.  Many here are older than the Ranch.  They watch someone jackhammer out a grave using the old rock pick. The legendary Joyce Dunbar had found it long before either of them were born, and with the care Eppers gave equipment, it probably would outlast both of them. Would the Ranch? Such things were in God's hands, not theirs; best to keep them there in faith. \par
\par
 -------\par
 \par
 \par
how are the Ranch, Nicholls and the trailer court all in a state of crisis and how is Deem the solution to their problems by linking them? Perhaps the Council of 12 is confronted with their own authority and it overextension as Erastian and ensuing evils.  Nicholls has fossilized, the trailer court has devolved to despotism by organized crime, and the leadership model the Ranch is using (one eldership over everyone) is not working.  They want a structure, it would seem, of a bishop and presbytery and then a pastor and elders in each settlement.    But that is not clear and they certainly do not presume to create a pastor, let alone a bishop. Some settlements have created boards, but are uncomfortable calling them sessions as they want the involvement of a bishop. \par
\par
Obviously Eppers do not separate civil and ecclesiastical functions as in the WCF.  With the Eppers the church seems to have swallowed the state.  How does their dual structure of bishops and elders answer this?  It is too neat to say that the bishops handle the religious and the elders the civil matters.  Instead it is a mix.  From time to time the presbytery or the elders of a church may employ the power of the sword, never the bishop or the pastor, yet those operating as civil magistrates may not be pastors, elders or bishops. The 'administrator' such as John Cassell can hold such authority - but his office is dependent on the church.  So John is a magistrate per chapter 23.  The elders cannot order him to do anything, they can only hire and fire him, which forces them to consider everything he is doing rather than a single issue. At the same time they approve or disapprove his budget and, if necessary, line items. \par
\par
Historically administrators have been appointed by bishops, chosen by presbyteries, sessions, and even elected by and from the people of a church.  So there are administrators both at the local level and at the level of the presbytery.  Eppers have no markedformal organization above that of presbyteries. The denomination supports the seminary, relief and mission work, and committees, such as the unfortunate Committee on Doctrinal Purity. Yet there is an archbishop, and an arch-administrator, whose roles are limited to negotiating and resolving disputes, but never by decree, pronouncement or via arbitration.  Deacons typically report to the adminiistrator, and the administrator to the elders (including the pastor). The archbishop may call a conclave of all bishops at the request of any bishop, and he has no veto power.  The bishops decide what will be necessary for any issue to be approved, which can vary depending on the issue. \par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
\par
Nicholls is like Jeremiah's Judah in contrast to the trailer court's Israel or place of casting out and shame, the proud city versus those who are looked down on, many of whom are not the criminals they are thought to be over in Nicholls.  It's poor and it's where a certain element is allowed to live, but it's also where other elements live who are not wanted in the pristine city. If you don't cut it in Nicholls, either you leave the area, or you wind up there.  Deem is drawn to it. It is the third community Deem draws together as he works on police outreach to them and standard community outreach to them.  It does not all go well.\par
\par
\par
\par
The never-ending legal hassles with the feds and the state is actually a protection against Johnson, who cannot get records even as he talks to state and federal agencies.  As public citizens they recoil from his flashy, overly rich condenscension of them and gross attempts at bribery and other things that would possibly work in private industry, and have for him, but not here. He has alienated government, which he does not understand. The agencies will not help him. But the Ranch legal staff is pretty good, and he underestimates a certain Katie Poller and others as he considers this ramshackle collection of tralers (he visited the south end with Ivanovich, once, and scoffed at the church service) and figures they are no match for him.  People picked up at church that there is evil here, without specifying it is him.  In any case he is wholly unmoved, as if he were a vessel doomed to destruction.    \par
\par
auditory descriptions more than visual: conversation as the main method of description and revealing of personalities\par
 \par
depth of sin and forgiveness - maybe dealing with issues and patterns of sin, not just the actual sin but structures and choices that give rise to sin, damage in the identity: patterns of poverty, autism, homosexuality, transgenderism, racism, sexism, prejudice, alienations of all kinds. Where does grace intersect our lives? And some people make stupid decisions and reap the consequences - are there enough of them?\par
   \par
  \par
 \par
Deem unites  the two very different cultures, the Nicholls Marines and the Ranch, which has a Jesus people hippie feel that I have not really brought out, just that they are hardworkers.  Deem makes observations about other people that really apply to himself, such as the deacon being a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief.\par
 Isaiah/Deem/Ellen??  Deem sees her as untouchable, Donna Gratia, far above him.  \par
\par
\par
 read through, continuity, repetition. irrelevant, improve focus, sharpness, interest, details; bring out characters.      self-control vs treasure should be a theme; loss of lesser things for gain at a higher level a subtheme. Perhaps some Jim ELiot quotes. \par
 \par
Crazy Harry and the boss are parallels, on different scales.  Crazy Harry falls into the sinkhole at the end of section 2, and Deem thinks his troubles are over, not realizing that the Boss is behind Crazy Harry.   Crazy Harry should foreshadow the Boss but in contrast Crazy Harry is more of the world, and the Boss of the devil.  Perhaps Part 1 should be against the flesh, then, whether in the Christians who fight it as the redeemed do, or in the tag-alongs?\par
\tab counterpoint to treasure is renouncing the worthless, even setting counterfires \tab against the coming judgement: CH epitomizes this\par
\tab someone who is indifferent to any kind of treasure. Natalie earlier?  \par
\cf1\par
Still valid?\par

\pard\li720 The story is disjointed.  Times don't line up. Town is too negative. The sinkhole is not tying any of these loose strands up. Some should go. There are too many unresolved questions, like how do all these things get resolved?    \tab there are still time sequence problems and too many loose ends\par
\cf0\par

\pard judgement is coming - how can we separate out the stubble and straw that will be burned up and be preserved through the fire? The prairie fire is there to express such judgement and an opportunity for Isaiah's pa to use it as an object lesson to build his life right, not on or with straw, on a solid foundation.  True treasure passes through the fire. \par
======\par
\par
}
 