{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 July 27, 2016\b0\par
Three weeks flew by. At the same time they seemed to have lasted forever, so that Deem felt both like he had just arrived, and had been here forever. He had hoped for some sense of victory, some elation, some sense that he had made it or that the struggles to get this point were over. There was none of that, more just continual struggle punctuated rarely by unexpected joy, beauty or victory.  The first part of Romans 5 was continually on his mind.  How could Paul consider it joy? Well, it was a command.  And hope came, according to the apostle.  \par
He was still not used to what happened when he had accepted the postion: the immediate, curious isolation of command a la a ship's captain or an idol on a pedestal.  It was like being inside an isolation chamber, but one overcrowded with strangers who were determined to be polite but noncommital.  There was a polite, respectful distance between himself and the elders that he had not expected.  He had thought they would be more of a community of equals.  Instead he experienced intense separation, which he felt most intensely when meeting with them as a group, or perhaps more intensely one on one.  The first elders' meeting was a case in point.  He had brought a long list of subjects to cover and discuss. He wanted to hear everyone out and see what they thought, and move through each issue carefully, and then, and only then make a decision.  This approach brought blank faces.  He asked what was wrong.\par
"Sir, if I may speak candidly...."\par
"Always, Kitten."\par
"Let's cut to the chase.  You should take the big picture approach and not get bogged down in detail. There are just too many things."\par
From the expressions on the other faces this was the consensus, and they had discussed it outside the room, at an elders meeting he had not been invited to, meaning he was being cut out of some of the decision making that he needed to be in on.  A sure path to an exit and an extremely bad sign.  Well, bad signs were familiar territory. If things ever looked like they were going well he probably would not be paying attention.  He needed to recalibrate.  He could not afford to be defensive.  He threw out his plan completely and changed tactics.   \par
"Ok. Got it.  First, if you have criticism of me, I would appreciate it if you bring it to me before you bring it to anyone else.  That would help us learn to trust each other." There was some blinking. Two people glanced quickly at Mark to see his reaction. Mark's face was blank.\par
"Yes, sir."   They got it.  Would they listen, though? Only time would tell.\par
"Well,"  Elder Opp said,"There is a need to look at both the overall picture and the details. We don't have enough people to focus on one or the other.  I think you need to be fully familiar with both, or both will be lost."\par
Dennis and Kitten looked at each other in the silence.  Deem looked at both of them, then down at the list of areas he wanted to discuss. Suddenly the list looked silly and out of tune with reality, and he recalled a certain sermon that he had thought ready, but was not. He felt the same about the list.  This, he had been told, was a part of ministry: be prepared to throw out a thoroughly prepared plan at the spur of the moment.  On the other hand, sometimes you had to insist on that plan.  In the here and now he threw out his plan, and the idea of  Prayer was first. "Kitten, I want you to take the prayer ministry.  I want to see the congregation grow in that area. I want to see prayer meetings. Develop a plan and begin executing it.  We will look at what you have done at our next meeting."\par
"Dennis, you've got Education.  From now on I want you to take the Sunday morning class. I want to see multiple, smaller classes eventually but for now let's stick with the one.  Also Sunday school."\par
Deem was basically just going around the table.  But it seemed to fit.\par
"Sandy, building and grounds, maintenance."\par
"Mike, Finances.  Figure out how we can stop bleeding."\par
"Sandy, the service.  I want you to go look at the Ranch and see what they are doing, see if there are any ideas to incorporate.  I want you to take charge of the worship team and the service outside of the sermon.  The sermon is mine. You and I will work closely on this." Deem  really wanted to find out what was going on with him.\par
Sandy said,"And the Decorating Committee?"\par
"You will be over them."\par
Sandy took this silently.  Later Deem would learn why. There were a few very low muffled laughs.\par
"Nathan, missions, evangelism and ministry.  There are a lot of people in this town who need the touch of Christ.  As Marines you can probably reach some of the veterans better than anyone else. I would like you to think about how we could reach the Nicholls Trailer Court in particular. That is short term and long term."\par
There were some looks.  That was the worst part of town, its closed little world that did not welcome strangers.  \cf1 Most of the crime in town happened in the Nicholls Trailer Court, which was across the highway and a little south, so they could see anyone coming.  They allowed ambulances in, but if the sherriff's office responded to something, they always sent at least four officers.  Long ago the ambulances had requested police escort there.  There were two bars on on the east side of it, the Drunken Monkey and the Ugly Fish, and a junkyard that techinically was outside the city limits. The sherriff's office was convinced the buildings there were a chop shop, but there was no proof. There were rumors of other illegal activities. \par
\cf0 "Those are the areas I have identified.  We will work together, not be siloed. Let us coordinate our efforts.  I will be working with each of you if you have any questions. But the idea is these areas are your responsibility.  I want an elder run church. Are you with me?"\par
"Sir, yes, sir." And he could tell they were with him. They would accept his leadership.\par
He understood why pastors get married.  There was the terrific isolation, but also an endless series of meetings and dinners at which people were smiling and polite and superficial, coupled with counseling sessions that were intense. \par
Case in point: he had praised the potato salad the first night here. He imagined the conversations were" what does he like? He likes potato salad. Ok, I will make it." Every night, Dutch potato salad.  He thought they were passing the recipe around.  \par
He understood now why Aaron had counseled he get a confidential assistant.  That, despite more people time than ever, as dinner invitations from elders both in town and at the Ranch were nonstop,and there were meetings, meetings, meetings.  Church attendence was slowly rising but the new people seem to be very needy.  He saw more people but knew them less, or knew them far better than he would like.  He needed friends, but the position would not allow it.  The bishop had asked about progress there, but there had been none.\par
He had visited the Ranch's Wednesday night service.  There were hundreds of people. Everything was done with excellence.  The facility was very modern.  The elders took turns preaching, but they had asked him to say a few words instead.  Caught totally unprepared, he delivered the previous Sunday's sermon and received a warm welcome afterwards.   His heart rose in his throat when the choir filed in and he saw Ellen - he could immediately identify her as Ellen Ripley Bread, the superstar - and he recalled her career and her fall, her jail-time.  He spent part of the service wondering what she was done there, in the choir, and concluded she was working through her baggage.  She had been a favorite of his for several years, and he had read a long article in \i the Epper \i0 when she had been arrested.  He faced great disappointment: part of him had been hoping this Beatrice, this donna gratia, would soothe his pain.  But she had too much baggage.  She would not be a suitable spouse for a pastor. He reproached his irrational feelings.  They, however, had no intention of changing. \par
Elder Cassell had had him to dinner.  He presented several of the pastoral decisions the Ranch was currently faced with.  He was asked about a situation in which a young woman felt she was being stalked, but there was no proof and it really hadn't gotten to that point yet, only it seemed she mighe be oversensitive, and his response was that she really should confront him first, then take another along, before bringing it to the church.  If she had good reason to not confront him that was another matter. Mt 18 and all that. \par
He could not continue to stay with Kitten, so he went apartment looking, based on the list he had been given and word-of-mouth.  The first one was so full of the smell of tobacco from the previous tenant that he did not want it.  The second one actually had a mouse turn and look at him when he opened the door.  The third stank of wet dog.  Finally he got an apartment within walking distance of the church, one over a storefront on Main Street. The walls were thin and there was a young lady in the apartment next to him who seemed to have a lot of visitors, all men, at night.  It was still a dump, but it had basic furniture and kitchen utensils, although they were old and worn, and the air was clean. The water was the brown stuff that came out of the tap, and the hot water was worse, as there was some odor with it, so he took cold showers.  The hot water was off half the time, anyway.\par
His stuff arrived from Michigan. Some of it was damaged in transit, some was missing.  He got a promise for a check for $5,000 from the moving company and the promise of an upcoming  apology, but there were things that would not be replaced,  and the damage was easily twice what they were willing to pay.  The things that did make it reminded him of past difficulties, of Sarah, of illness and long-term desperation.  "Trophies of God coming through. He did then, He will do so again."  There was a quiet faith in him, he knew.\par
His parents wanted to come see him.  That would not go well, what with the dumpy apartment and the small half-filled church. They had been against him going to seminary, thought it would go nowhere, and his present circumstances would be used as ammunition to try to convince him to return home and stock shelves at the grocery store.  There would be a place for him. \par
One good point was that the decorating committee was gone.  Pastor Hartmann had allowed them to run the church.  They had run prayer meetings, organized worship, meals for the sick, basically everything, and they had strongly objected to "having to submit to a patriarchial yoke by a newcomer committing emotional assault upon God's faithful" and more talk like that in one meeting.  The pianist and all the musicians were gone, which Deem thought was a plus.  Mark could not sing but a few others could, and they were leading worship a capella, which Calvin, anyway would have approved.  The elders were rising to their responsibilities and Deem could concentrate on worship, direction, general pastoral care and new people.     \par
On the other hand there were ugly rumors out there whose source was unknown but could be guessed.  Some who had been warm to him were suddenly cold, and a few were no longer attending.  The elders were backing him, which is good, but he feels like there is a lot not being said that should be out in the open. The bishop is officially ignoring some letters he has gotten, since they are not from the elders, and it is Deem's problem, but he is aware of the situation. Don't let the b's grind you down, is his advice.\par
Deem had had lunch with Father O'Reilly.  The bishop had actually encouraged him to have lunch with the Catholic priest, and Deem had gone reluctantly.  The priest was in his later middle ages.  He had been a Navy chaplain in his younger days, serving with the Marines. He had also served as a priest in Mexico for ten years and was fluent in Spanish, not surprisingly. He was not too tall but thin and somewhat athletic.  They ate in \i La Cantina\i0 , which Deem had not visited. Their meal was punctuated by greetings and short conversations in Spanish.  This was a side of Nicholls that Deem had been unaware of.  \par
"I think you are finding Nicholls can be difficult," Father O'Reilly said over his beef burrito, which he said was better than any he had ever eaten elsewhere. \par
"Yes, that is true." \par
The priest looked at him.  Deem wondered what he knew, and what he had heard.  \par
"I am not your enemy.  I would like to be your friend."\par
"Well, thank you - padre.  The bishop speaks highly of you."\par
"Does he now," he smiled."I think highly of him.  You know I am on the ecumenical committee of the Diocese.  We are respectfully reaching out to non-Catholic Christians."\par
"For conversion?"\par
"No.  That was the way we have been doing things so long that I am afraid it has left a bad taste in everyone's mouth.  For a deeper appreciation of Christ and what He has taught and is teaching through all of us.  Wise men still seek him.  There are things in Epper theology that we could learn from, I expect."\par
"I am surprised to hear you say that. I would have expected you to have cursed Luther by now."\par
"That is not the direction the Holy See desires us to go.  That has been made clear.  That was an unprofitable and unfruitful approach the Vatican has abandoned: much recent research on Luther, for example, has discounted and refuted our past view of the man.  In fact, there is much to admire in him."\par
"Indeed.  But he is still, officially, a heretic to your Church."\par
"This is true.  We seek unity, but not at the cost of conscience or integrity."\par
"Frankly, I am surprised at hearing you say that....."  They spoke for some time, on that and other issues.  Deem got the impression he really knew Nicholls, both its strengths and its weaknesses, he knew people, but even more, that he would make a good friend.  It was one of the best conversations he had had since coming to Nicholls.\par
\par
\par
}
 