{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 0800 July 11, 2016 Nicholls and the Trailer Park Deem Goes Grocery Shopping\b0\par
Nicholls Grocery was three blocks north of Pfingsters.  Deem had been asked to run the quick errand for eggs and milk.  Kitten was changing the oil on his truck and didn't have time. And there he was.\par
So off he went, on foot.  The birds were singing and the heat had broken. It was really rather pleasant this Monday morning, and he smiled at a few people who had been at church yesterday.  The evening service had gone well - instead of directly teaching, since he had not had time to prepare anything, he had opted to ask questions, and he had a feeling people were digging into Hebrews in case they were called on again.  He was curiously light in heart, something he had not felt in a long time.  Things were promising.  It had only been a week ago that all he had eaten for a week was a can of corn and a head of lettuce.  When he had gotten to Kansas City Aaron had decided he needed to be fattened up a little before he went down to Nicholls, so they had stuffed him for a week so he would not eat like a hog when he was presented with food.  It had not been the first week he'd lived on lettuce and corn.\par
Here the sun was shining.  People were sweeping their front steps. "Morning Reverend" he heard and waved, even from people in the houses with the regulation Mary statue in their front garden, her heart crossed, in the exact middle, facing the street with a military exactness in a weed-free garden, a weed-free yard, a weed-free city. \par
Here was the church.  And the parking lot. And the car! He stood, amazed.  Then he walked around it. Not a dent, not a scratch, not a flat.  Someone had even washed it.  The keys were in it, like in all vehicles in Nicholls.  Everyone knew whose cars were whose and if  you or a stranger were found driving the wrong car, questions would be asked then and there, by people with weapons who knew how to use them.  There was no car theft in Nicholls.\par
He got in.  There was a note on the seat. FOUND CAR ON ROAD AND PUT IT IN OUR DIRVEWAY FR SAFEKEEPING. HARD IT WAS YRS. HOPE YU DON MIND WE WARSHT IT. GOT BLEST   Well, that was nice. It was also full of gas.  So he smiled and drove it and pulled into the gravel lot at Nicholls Grocery.\par
HALP WONTED the sign said.  Could people here spell? Not a strong point of the Bulldogs, apparently.  If things didn't turn out for him as a pastor, he....no.  There was that divide between laity and clergy.  He could never live here as a non-pastor, because he had been a pastor.  He sighed.  He was beginning to like the place.\par
Nicholls Grocery was like one of those grocery warehouses on the low end of the scale, with no frills, no ornamentation, just the facts.  In fact, there were no signs telling you where anything was, or, in the greeneries, what anything was or how much it cost.  Apparently you were supposed to know.\par
It was not exactly uncrowded either.  There were plenty of people and there was a constant chatter of information,actually,about how much things cost: "Dollar twenty five." "It was a dollar ten last week - Carl, what is up with that" and so forth.  He worked his way through grocery carts, nodding his head at people, and finally found the eggs in a dairy case, in what appeared to be a reusable container. Not styrofoam, but sturdy plastic.  He checked his  dozen and they were all intact, and were obviously from a local place that didn't both to sort by size very well, as they were somewhat different. Some were white, some brown, some speckled.  The milk was in a glass bottle.  The glass bottles were marked with a letter code: Marigold had told him to get one gallon of D4.  He found one and got it, and then worked his way through the crowd to the front.\par
There were several lines and things were moving slow.  He nodded to the man in front.  He was holding a piece of paper that Deem recognized was an employment application. He was about Deem's age and rail-thin, unshaven, but his hair was combed.  His shirt was cheaply made but was clean, and so were his jeans, altough they were worn out and very threadbare.  He was wearing worn-out sandals. \par
"Manager" it said on the nametag of the middle-aged woman who took the application. The rest of her said Marine in a way that this man didn't.\par
"Where do you live again?" she said dubiously.\par
"Easy Street, over on the east side. You know."\par
"Nicholls doesn't have an east side."\par
"It's in Nicholls Trailer Court."\par
"I'm sorry. We don't hire people out of there. Next!"\par
"But I need a -"  But she had turned to Deem with a smile, and somehow the man was simply gone.\par
"Good morning, sir! You're Mr. Futz, aren't you? Heard you preached a good sermon. But I go to St. George." \par
Deem smiled and slid the  five dollar bill Marigold had given him across the counter.\par
The cash register was the old fashioned kind, one Deem had not seen in years. Mechanical. It rang up the amount noisily and with a chug-a-chug printed out a receipt, black ink on white paper, two copies, one for the store and one for him.  Deem took his milk and eggs over to the bagging table, where there were cloth bags.  The man who had been ahead of him was still there, still clutching his application.\par
The manager saw him then. "We don't need your kind in here. Get out or I'm calling the police."\par
The man shuffled out, looking hungry.  Deem almost passed him.  A memory of weeks of eating nothing but lettuce and corn filled his mind.  The man looked lost, forlorn, discouraged.\par
They walked together, silently.  The man turned east as if to walk back over the highway along Main and back to the trailer court instead of finding a car.\par
Deem watched him for a minute.  Then he put his groceries in the back seat of his car and called to the man.\par
"Hey, sir," Deem called.\par
The man jumped as if he had heard a noise and put his hands out to show he was unarmed. He slowly turned around.  He was surprised.\par
"You're not a cop," the man said, wondering.\par
"No," Deem said,"I try to keep civil order another way. Are you hungry?"\par
"Oh, yes," the man said. "I have not eaten today. I have a wife at home and three kids and I can't get a job in this town because I live on the wrong side of the highway. We moved down here because of a job offer, and then they withdrew it, and there we were, in the trailer court. We can't afford any more."\par
It was painfully familiar to Deem. But what could he do? The only money he had had been Pfingster's five dollars.  But there was enough..\par
"I can't do a lot for you.  I don't have a job myself."\par
"Looks like we are in the same boat."\par
"Looks that way.  But. Tell you what.  Wait right here and I will be back." So he fought the crowd again and came back with a bottle of D4 milk, a loaf of bread, a can of corn and a head of lettuce.\par
"That's all I can do for you."\par
"Thanks."\par
"Are there no social services here?"\par
"Not in Nicholls County. They say they don't need any. They say Nicholls takes care of their own. But that does not include the trailer court."\par
"I see.  My name is Deem Futz.  I'm the pastoral candidate at the Epper church."\par
"Really? You are a minister and you are giving me food? I thought all that you guys ever did was take, take, take."\par
"Well, if you don't want the food..."\par
"No, no, sorry, sorry.  I hope I didn't offend. My name is Tony. Tony Smith."\par
There was an awkward silence.\par
"Are you going to walk back?"\par
"I lost my car. They repoed it."\par
"Let me give you a ride."\par
"You sure you want to go over there?"\par
"Sure I'm sure."\par
"Ok."\par
Five minutes later Deem pulled in front of a trailer and parked on the pad. There was a short concrete sidewalk going to a grey, unpainted deck.  You turned and went into the trailer there. A number of young men had watched Deem drive in. Young men with beers in their hands, undershirts and low-slung pants and baseball caps on backwards.  There was litter and trash everywhere.  It was hard to believe this was five minutes from Nicholls. \par
Tony took his grocery bag and thanked Deem.  Down the block pickup basketball had started, and the young men drifted behind the car toward the sound of the ball thumping and the clatter as it hit the rim\par
"I'd like you to meet  my family, while you are here. I want them to meet the man who was so good to us."  Tony was smiling so invitingly that Deem could not resist.  This time, though, he pocketed the car keys.  As he walked, two police squad cars sirened their way down a parallel street and stopped over there.  \par
The inside of the trailer was clean, although not as clean as anything in Nicholls, but then few things outside a Marine depot would be.  Tony's wife Ama was busy with a hungry little one. There were two other preschoolers.  There were no decorations on the wall.  The place shouted poverty, something Deem knew from West Virginia.  There was hunger and desperation here.  These were people who had been thrust into the trailer court who did not want to be here but had nowhere else to go.  \par
Deem made his goodbyes and left.\par
The car was gone.  He stood staring for a minute.  "This is getting to be a habit," he said to himself.\par
He went back and knocked on the door.  He borrowed Ama's cell phone and called Kitten. It took twelve rings before Marigold answered it.  He told here what happened, and her final words were, "we don't go over there, ever.  I'll call the police to come get you."\par
Five minuted later two more squad cars pulled into the trailer court, lights and sirens blazing. they parked in front of the trailer.  The drivers stayed in the cars and two cops came up to the door.  \par
"You Futz?" the officer said. These two officers did not look at all happy to be in the trailer court.  They kept looking around.  Deem noticed they were wearing bulletproof vests. \par
Deem nodded.  The officer looked at Tony. "Did you steal the car?"\par
"No," Tony said, astonished.\par
"Why should we believe you? I think you lured this man in here and one of your freak-friends took the car while you kept Futz busy."\par
"Officer, that's not how it-"\par
"I'm taking you in for questioning." The preschoolers howled as they watched their father handcuffed and taken away.  Ama cried silently, reached out a helpless hand, and then dropped it in despair.\par
Ten minutes later Deem was back at the grocery store, and again he found the eggs and the milk.  He again went through line but found he did not have enough money.\par
"You were in here earlier, with that guy from the trailer court," the manager said, much less friendly this time. \par
"He was in line ahead of me."  Somehow Deem felt like Peter denying Christ.\par
"Are you staying with Pfingsters?"\par
"Well, yes."\par
"Which ones?"\par
"Kitten. Marigold."\par
"Ok. I'll charge this to their account. Or pay next time you come in. NEXT!"\par
And Deem walked back to Pfingsters, much less happy than he had been on the way over.  What was going on around here? What was God calling him to do?\par
"You need to stay out of there," the two cops had told him on the way back into Nicholls.  What if he needed to be there?\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 