{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Isaiah wanted to talk to his Papa alone.  Together they climbed to the top of the big barn, where you could see for miles.  It was not a place Isaiah was allowed alone.  They looked at the prairie and the sky for a minute, and the ground below.\par
"Papa, who were those guys?"\par
"They were bad people.  They are now in jail."\par
"Why were they here?"\par
"They wanted to do bad things."   \par
"Will they come back?"\par
"I don't think so."\par
"How come there are bad people?"\par
"Well, God lets them decide to be bad."\par
"How come he doesn't just smack them down when they decide to be bad?"\par
"I think God wants them to turn to Him and gives them time to do so. Sometimes you decide to do bad things, right?"\par
"Yes."\par
"What if the first time you sinned God hit you with a lightning bolt?"\par
"I would be dead."\par
"So would everyone else."\par
"Oh.  But these are really bad men. How come God lets them get that bad?"\par
"They choose to get that bad."\par
"I don't like bad men. I get scared."\par
"You need to have courage and faith. Courage is being afraid but doing what is right anyway."\par
"Wouldn't it be better if God just went wump and all the evil in the world disappeared?"\par
"You know, He promised He will do that. You know Revelations 12:11?"\par
"No."\par
 "'And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony; and they loved not their lives unto the death.'    God allows evil that we would overcome the devil that way.  He also uses evil so we will grow in character. That means we will be more like He is."\par
"God is big on making us like Jesus. That is what my Sunday School teacher says."\par
"Correct."\par
\par
Deem was humming, something a previous generation of Eppers had condemned as frivolous. Matt Kracht looked at him with his customary scowl. "Matt, I have some great news. The bishop and the presbytery have reviewed your report concerning the resurrection of John Bread and are not going to forward it on to Michigan. Ever.  They are closing the case. I just got off the phone with Aaron Muis."\par
The scowl deepened and his face turned deep red. "About proper order. Improprieties. Goings on here."\par
A minute later he said, "Bring up with doctrinal. You. unfit. Evidence. I have evidence. Why I am here."  Deem realized that could very well be true. Matt's purpose was to gather evidence against him.  And he had been with Deem in every meeting, every encounter, had gone with him everywhere, and Agnes had been dutifully writing things done for Matt, things Deem had no idea of.\par
That was the last conversation Deem had with Matt Kracht.  It seemed Matt had to immediately return to Michigan.  Neither of the Krachts spoke to Deem again. Agnes packed them up and and they left that very hour.\par
 Two hours later the bishop called Deem.  Matt Kracht had stopped by.  The bishop expected that Matt Kracht would be back on medical retirement, and Deem had nothing to worry about. It was a wondrous gift of grace that God had given Deem.  Would that more pastors would raise the dead in their services and not worry about protocol.  And Deem probably needed a bodyguard as much as a confidential assistant, someone who could fill both roles.\par
\par
Dinner tonight was with Phero Cassell and his family in Nicholls.  Phero - Vietnamese for Peter - was the adopted son of Elder Cassell.  He had been born in Saigon, South Vietnam to a Vietnamese mother, it was guessed, and his father had been white, probably an American, who had long departed before Saigon fell and was renamed Ho Chi Minh City. He had been airlifted out as a toddler and adopted by Elder Cassell and his wife. In those days many such children, half-Vietnamese and half-Caucausian or black, had been adopted by Epper families across the US.  He remembered no Vietnamese, he said.   He was a graduate of Nicholls High School, a former Marine (one tour), living in Nicholls but attending the Ranch sometimes, sometimes the church in Nicholls,  he was married with children, wife is Catholic but not particularly observant. He is a cook at the Taiwan Tea House, an assistant scoutmaster, still restless, feeling he didn't really fit in anywhere. Years ago he attempted college but didn't make it through the first semester academically. Deem saw a yearning for greatness, to make something more of his life than he has to date, something hitting in him the way of a midlife crisis.  He was in the  Marines from 1990-1993, saw no combat, was a cook, had children Jennifer (born 1997, now 20, attending Mizzou), Joshua (born 1999, senior at Nicholls High, planning to join the Marines, an average student), Benjamin (b. 2004, now 13, at Nicholls Middle School, unambitious and a First Class scout not really interested in Star.  He plays the trumpet and was cut from the junior high school football team recently).  As the adopted son of the great Elder Cassell, he thought he should do well.  He had the traits of a preacher's kid but his father was not a pastor.  He had survived the winter of 78 when he was 6 years old. \par
It was a quiet dinner with Phero, Jennifer, Joshua and Benjamin.  He was surpised that Phero had invited him.  But here he was. \par
"Where is your sidekick?" Joshua asked on opening the door.\par
"He won't be eating with us tonight. He may have left permanently."\par
"How come?" this was Benjamin.\par
"Dear, that is a prying question," his mother said,"Please come in. Dinner is almost ready."\par
Deem found himself sitting in the small living room. Across a counter he could see Phero, cooking something in a wok:"Hey, Pastor."\par
"Hello Phero," and Deem entered the kitchen and looked in the wok.\par
"Kung pao chicken?"\par
"Yes. I heard you hate potato salad."\par
"Well, that is not true.  I like it a lot. People have been blessing me with it."\par
"No potato salad here.  Do you like it spicy?" Phero stopped, a big red pepper poised over the wok."\par
"Not on fire. Kind of medium."\par
"Oh, ok, I will leave it out."\par
"That would be fine." He brought the wok to the table.  There were place settings for Matt and his wife.\par
"I'll clear those," said Jennifer, and she did.\par
This was the first time he had seen Joshua and Benjamin.  He wasn't sure if they went anywhere on Sunday mornings, but he wasn't here to interrogate.\par
"If you'll sit there, Pastor Futz," Phero said, and he did, at the foot or head of the table with Phero at the other end.  The boys were on one side and Jennifer on the other. \par
"You go ahead and say grace," Deem said, and Phero did, smoothly.  Jennifer crossed herself.\par
"So....How is the pastor thing working out?"\par
"It's a calling.  No one ever becomes a pastor because he wants an easy life. At least I hope not, and if he does, I would question his call."\par
"Benjamin here wanted to meet you and ask you some questions."\par
"All right. Shoot."\par
"Is it true that you raised someone from the dead during church?"\par
Well, John Bread rose from the dead.  That was a God thing. I didn't have much to do with it."\par
"In the Catholic Church there would be an investigation to determine the validity of the miracle," Jennifer said quietly. "I have spoken with John Bread, before and afterwards. He used to deliver our mail.  People say there is proof he was dead.  He is alive now, or was. I saw him at the post office, getting mail for the Ranch.  He moved out there, I am sure you know. "\par
"Do you do a lot of miracles? You know, like Miracle Max in \i The Princess Bride\i0 ?"\par
"Benjamin, that's disrespectful!" Jennifer reproved her son. Phero obviously thought it was funny.\par
"Well, no," Deem replied. \par
"Was he really dead?" Phero asked quietly. "Some people say he was faking it.\par
Deem shook his head.  "I've seen the autopsy report, and he was embalmed. It is all documented."\par
"So he was really dead?" this was Joshua.\par
Deem nodded.\par
"And he came back to life? Like a Zombie? Does he eat brains?"\par
"Benjamin! That is enough. I am sorry, Pastor."\par
"It is all right.  I think I am as surprised as anyone.  John became a Christian. That is more important, actually.  We need to keep the focus on where it belongs: on Christ, not on spectacular miracles.  These things are given to point us to Christ, not as something to be looked at in themselves."\par
"So," Phero asked, and paused a moment as if choosing his words,"Do you feel differently about yourself, now that you have raised a man from the dead? Like you have done something great?"\par
"Absolutely not.  It had little if anything to do with me.  I was the same person before that happened, and the same person afterwards. It was and is not about me.  It is about Christ."\par
"You don't feel like your call has been authenticated or something?"\par
"No.  I was called before I had any idea I would ever see someone raised from the dead. It really doesn't change anything."\par
"Well, if I raised someone from the dead, I think I would think differently about myself." This was Joshua.\par
"That's the thing, Joshua. I really had little to do with it. Almost nothing. For me it changes nothing: I knew before that Christ can raise the dead and I know now He can.  I didn't need it as a confirmation.  Perhaps it will lead other people to Christ - certainly John Bread - and maybe others. That is God's job, not mine.  I am a sinner in need of grace. I can only point to the One who gives it."\par
"So you don't think of yourself as a dispenser of grace as a minister of the Gospel?" this was Jennifer. \par
"Now that is a question.  I obey, and God gives the grace. He chooses to use broken people, like me. But it is not about me.  It is about Him.  My job is to decrease that He may increase, like John the Baptist said. As much as possible, I want to be in the background and never to upstage God.  As I said, it is not about me. It is about Him."\par
"So what you do does not define who you are?" This was Phero.  Deem thought he was fishing.\par
"No. God is the one who defines who I am  and is the one who will reward me.  If my life has any meaning, it is because God gave it meaning, gives it meaning, will give it meaning.  Not because I give it any meaning. Not because anyone else gave or gives it meaning.  It all goes back to God."\par
"I think a lot of people think more of you because of this," Jennifer said. "People don't know what to do, or to say.  It is easier to decide it was some kind of publicity stunt, or to forget it, than to deal with it.  So, pardon me, people see you either as a saint or a fraud."\par
"Well, I am both," Deem smiled in return,"I am a saint because God calls me that in His word, and I am a fraud because I know what a sinner I am.  It is very hard for people to walk in truth. We play little games all the time."\par
"You know, you're right?"  this was Phero,"and, are you done?"\par
"Yes, it is all very good." Deem smiled and looked at his empty plate. "That is some of the best kung pao chicken I have ever had."\par
Phero beamed. He got up and returned with plates of small round cakes.  "These are suncakes," Phero said, "We do not sell these at the Taiwan House yet - I am still perfecting them."\par
"Oh, Dad, not to a guest." Joshua protested. Benjamin rolled his eyes.\par
"Be honest. I tried one and it tasted just fine." Phero said.  Jennifer passed a plate to Deem.\par
Deem looked at it.  It was a small round thing, like a little pancake except thicker, and slightly flaky.\par
Phero picked his up with his fingers and bit into his suncake. "Umm!" I think I succeeded this time.  This is from a recipe from Taichung itself, and some say it is the original recipe."\par
With Jennifer and the boys hesitating, Deem picked his up and bit it. It was a lot like biting into raw dough with a sweet center of honey, maybe, or brown sugar or something - way too much, overpoweringly sweet, and the dough was undercooked. It was terrible, especially after the kung pao chicken. It was sticking to his teeth.  His gag reflex reminded him of its existence, and warned him that if these kept on, he could expect a dramatic display. Deem put the rest of the cake back down on the plate. He put his napkin to his mouth and cleared out a good bit, but some of it was stuck to his teeth. \par
"You do not like it," Phero was disappointed.\par
After some water, Deem said,"It must be an acquired taste. I am sorry. Your kung pao chicken was excellent."\par
"Well, that is what I get for experimenting with a guest."\par
"Well, if you have a few minutes, Pastor."\par
"That's what I am here for."\par
"I am sure you boys have homework to do. You can do the dishes later." They sort of slid out back to their room to study.\par
"Pastor," began Phero.  Deem wondered what was up.\par
Jennifer sighed.  She knew what he was going to say.  Clearly this was old ground.\par
"We've never been able to settle in one church," he said,"I've tried the Ranch - I grew up there - and your church -"\par
"And the Catholic Church, where I go, you even made it partway through RCIA-" Jennifer interrupted.\par
"It's just that I am restless.  I think a married couple should go to the same church.  This has not been good for the kids."\par
"You mean you feel that you don't fit in." Jennifer clearly wanted this to be short.\par
"Where do you think we belong?"\par
Deem smiled. "It would be so easy to tell you 'my church'.  But that might well be manipulative.'\par
"So you don't have any guidance for us?"\par
'There is 'my sheep hear my voice.'"\par
"That's it?"\par
"Where do you think you belong?"\par
"In the Catholic Church, if anywhere.  But I don't go very often." This was Jennifer. "I think if we went as a couple I would go more often."\par
Phero looked at his wife, then at Deem. "I don't think that is the solution."\par
"Well, I think you two need to pray about it."\par
"We have. We have been praying for years."\par
"You need to pray until God gives you an answer."\par
"We have been praying since before we got married."\par
"You need to keep praying, no longer how long it takes. No time limit."\par
"So no guilt because we don't know?"\par
"How can you be guilty for not doing what God has not told you to do?"\par
"I am not sure I follow that."\par
"God has not said where you, as a couple, are to go, right? So don't go as a couple until He tells you.  Ask for guidance, and then follow.  Or has He spoken and you are just not listening?"\par
Jennifer's face said He had spoken, and she knew it, and that Phero should have heard. Phero had a look of innocent helplessness.  Deem thought Phero needed to have more internal peace before he could hear on this, but he was also not sure Jennifer was helping. \par
There was a silence.\par
"Well," said Deem, "I think that is about as far as we can go on this for now.  Think about what I said, and pray.  And thank you for a delicious dinner."\par
"Thank you, Pastor.  Sorry about the suncakes."\par
"I enjoyed the meal.  Nothing ventured, nothing gained. And it was good to get to know you better.  I also will pray for you."\par
When Deem got home, he rinsed his mouth out and gargled with mouthwash.  Brushing his teeth helped, but it would be some time before he was willing to eat anything with a sweet filling. \par
Deem worked on his sermon, and a name kept coming to mind: Kyle Pfingster.  He was Kitten's nephew, born and bred in the Nicholls Epper church.  Last Sunday, in fact, was his first back after leaving the Corps. He had completely missed Pastor Hartmann: the church he remembered had Pastor Schmidt. Kyle was thinking about college and then seminary.  He seemed to fit the bill as to what Deem wanted in a confidential assistant. Deem wrote his name down on his prayer list,  with CA? by it. He should also get a dog, a big one, like people had at the Ranch. Or would that make him less approachable as a pastor? He went everywhere armed already, which he was still unused to, but he also learned that everyone went to the firing range.  That made him more of a normal Nicholls citizen and less of a stranger who raised dead people. \par
 He worked at the report he had to send in to the presbytery. Tithes, offerings, attendence.  He didn't handle the money, he just got a report.  He didn't count people, other people did that.  These were the September figures.  He knew they had grown, but here it was. Attendence on September 4 had been 100, attendence on the 25th was 250. But the tithes and offerings were five times higher on the 25th than the fourth.  Was it a fluke? He looked at July and August, and there, also was a spike at the end of the month.  But the tithes and offerings on September 4 were twice what  had been given at the end of July.   \par
Perhaps they could get their building back, certainly would if this kept up.  Many people who had formerly been members were coming back, now that Pastor Hartmann was gone.  Deem refused to give himself any credit.  He spent a while on his knees, thanking God and praying for the church, the elders, the building, for wisdom, for Phero and Jennifer and their children, and for Ellen.  \par
Ellen. With a jolt Deem remembered they were courting.  He had not contacted her in over a week. Matt Poller had made it clear his place was not to be used for courting. They were both busy: what a tyrant the press of the day could be, pushing out the important. \par
He called her. She had to put kids to bath, then she could talk.  Could he come by?  She would meet him at the North Gate. They had built a better south gate, one no one could climb over or through, further east, and it was locked except when in use. \par
They strolled and talked, and Deem thought the pond was beautiful by starlight, fairer with her there.  She sang to him a song she had written to him. \par
\par
Deem had more reason to hum.  The bank had accepted a backpayment on their mortgage, which would allow them to reuse their own building. \par
Deem and Kyle toured the building with Mr. Fitzsimmons, the loan officer.  The bank had not wanted the church, had not wanted to look bad in the eyes of the community by kicking them out of their own church, but there had been that rather loud public confrontation with Pastor Hartmann, and that had left them with little choice.  Things were different, now, what with the church on the upswing and a change in pastors and in style.\par
Kyle had gone there and knew his way around the building better than Mr. Fitzsimmons.  All of it could use some cleaning.  Really, it had not been abandoned very long.  Get the lawn mowed and the bushes trimmed, and the place scrubbed, and they were ready.\par
Deem flipped a light switch. Nothing happened.  Mr. Fitzsimmons said that the church would have to work that out with the electric utility.  That, and the gas company, and the water district. \par
"This is an important first step," Deem said.  Mr. Fitzsimmons smiled.  \par
Deem spent a good deal of the following week on the phone and in personal visits with the various utilities. "We are members of the community, too," was the response from the Water District.  Shannon Jones, the director, was a neighbor of Deem's and actually a member of the church, although she had been going to the church in Clinton for about a year.  She was willing to let them have water on Sunday until the balance is paid, as it would help them get the money to pay the rest.  But the gas company was headquartered elsewhere and they were simply not budging.  Likewise the electric utility.\par
The Fire Marshall was fine with a daylight service without electricity.  The elders were willing to follow Deem with this, and so they announced that in two weeks they would be back in their own church.  Many of the Eppers gave a quiet "Praise God", but Skittles and his bunch were jubilant.   They were wiilling to tolerate each other.\par
\par
"I want you to come to the church in Nicholls on our first Sunday," Deem told Ellen. \par
"I know.  You want me to be attending there.  You also know I love the Ranch and its people. It is so central to my life now, that I don't know what I will do."\par
"I am hoping God is the center of your life.  I think you have experienced him very powerfully at the Ranch."\par
"Yes, yes I have."\par
"The Ranch is not the only place He is.  You know that."\par
"Head versus heart, Deem.  And there is the whole thing of being in the public eye. As your girlfriend.  They are good about minding their own business at the Ranch. I don't know about at your church - I am afraid some people would want to be my friend just so they have access to the pastor."\par
"Are you thinking of being very much in the background forever?"\par
"That, Deem is a touchy subject still."\par
"I mean some pastors' wives have careers outside the church, and some are almost co-pastors, and some are co-pastors, and some simply tend their knitting.  Often the pastor's wife heads up the pot-blesses and the women's ministry. Where do you see yourself?"\par
"At the feet of Jesus, learning. Call me Mary, waiting and looking up at Him. Behold, I am the handmaid of the Lord. Thy will be done, Lord, in sweet surrender.  Deem, past that I do not know.  There are many women who have been walking with the Lord far longer than I have who would make great leaders, and from what you have told me there are some now in Nicholls.  Who is leading the women's ministry now?"\par
It simply hadn't occured to Deem that they needed one. "No one."\par
"And what are you going to do about it?"\par
"I will discuss it with the elders. See, you have clout and access to the pastor already, pointing out things he needs to see."\par
"Really, Deem, it was obvious."\par
"To you."\par
Deem had a couple of names in mind. \par
\par
Deem was absolutely astonished.  The sanctuary, scrubbed and waxed and newly painted, glistened in the Sunday morning light as it filled up.  It filled up.  He looked out from the preparation room as Ellen came in, with the Poller family, and they all sat in a row in the front row. There was a nursery set up, he knew, but Kati had her child with her. \par
It was standing room only.  Skittles and his buddies came in late and stood and leaned and watched.  Most of the men were in suits or a shirt and a tie, but Skittles and his buddies favored black t shirts and leather jackets. They were together on the left in the back, standing. \par
Deem reviewed the liturgy for the day of Morning Service. John was to call out the opening of 'Enter His gates with thanksgiving', then Deem would speak for a moment, then there would be three hymns, prayer led by Deem, the offering with an offertory, the sermon and benediction.  It would be smooth, it would go like clockwork.  He was thinking about lunch with Ellen later when he pulled himself back to the present: something was wrong if that was what he valued.  He spent a little time on that in the preparation room.  It was sometimes the only time he could count on to be truly alone with God. Was he more interested in meeting God or in a smooth service? Meeting God.  Would that they would need crash helmets. That they would truly enter into the Presence. That they would never be the same again.  He prayed and prepared.\par
It did go smoothly, like clockwork.  There was the opening call, and amazingly the place was silent. Not a baby, not a pin dropped.  Deem placed the scrolls and turned to the full church, all of whom were looking at them. "Grace to you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ," he said, and they responded, "And also with you." Someone in Skittles' crew said "Oh, yeah, baby!" and there was some hushing as the music began.  Ellen was radiant. He had not expected the place to be full, but then they had had multiple services every Sunday not so long ago.\par
As pastor he sat facing the congregation, with Ellen in the front row.  In some churches the pastor sat with his wife.  And other people had the pastor and his wife sitting together, facing the congregation.  He was thinking about sitting in the front row, but it was not something he wanted to change for now.  There were enough controversies.\par
He led them through the prayers for the Sunday, for the denomination, the country, the church as a whole, missionaries, the sick, and wrapped it up with the Lord's Prayer. He usually shut his eyes during the Lord's Prayer, and when he opened them, he saw that most of the people were in an attitude of earnest prayer.  Wonderful.  \par
Then came the offering prayer, and the offertory sung by a young man with a passable voice. He saw Ellen watching stiffly, probably remembering, or maybe even falling into comparing what she would have done with the song versus what the young man did. Comparison was deadly, and Deem hoped she was not going there.\par
The offering was taken up. Deem took the first plate as a token and turned and offered it up to the Lord, as they did, in concert with the people of God behind him. He was certain that there was more than enough to pay the balances on the utilities, maybe enough to set the church in a good position.\par
When he turned, the scene had changed. There were four masked, armed men in the sanctuary coming forward, coming to steal the offering.  Deem felt a surge of anger. He also saw that behind them sidearms were being drawn: just about everyone from Nicholls was armed, and as they passed the guns came out behind them.\par
"Give me that," one of them said. He had a pillowcase. He pointed to the offering plates.\par
"Pick them up and put them in the bag. Now." \par
What he did not see, facing forwards, that his three friends, facing backwards, had their arms in the air and had dropped their weapons. \par
"I think you should turn around," said Deem quietly to the man with the pillowcase, and nodded towards his flock. His heavily armed flock.  Kyle was approaching from the side.\par
Despite suspicions, he glanced behind himself and saw his people, one by one, each with his hands in the air, and beyond them, the armed congregation.  Aside from the Pollers and Ellen, just about everyone, including those standing, had a weapon pointed at the man with the pillowcase.  He dropped it. \par
Kitten came forward. "Put your hands behind your heads and drop to your knees" he ordered. Deputy Cramer came forward and, with the help of several other men, led them out.  The one who had the pillowcase turned and yelled, "Eddie sent us, He has not forgotten you. Don't forget that."  A little while later there was the sound of a police van in the parking lot stopping, doors being opened, and then it drove off. \par
Deem thought about what a gross violation of the liturgy Matt Kracht would consider this. Wasn't Eddie in jail, along with his thugs?\par
"Well, this is our first service back here.  I trust that this won't happen again. We are now resuming the service.  I believe it is time for the sermon.\par
There was no Collect for when armed men come in during the service and attempt to rob it, or a Thanksgiving for when the church is delivered.  \par
"This morning I think of churches where armed men came in during the service and the result was far worse than we have experienced. I am tempted to change my sermon to something like 'Be On the Alert', but I don't think you people need any advice in that area.' He led them in a prayer of thanksgiving and then plunged into Matthew 11:25-30, the passage he had prepared.\par
On the whole, Eppers took the sermon seriously, generally taken notes and listening with great gravity.  Skittles' people were loud in their responses and responsive with amens during the sermon.  Deem actually preferred that to the dead silence the sermon was usually received with. After the service it took Deem over an hour to talk with everyone who wanted to talk to him.\par
Ellen had child duty and it was amusing to her to see Deem in the center of all the attention.\par
"Jealous?" Kati asked her.\par
"No, not a bit. That life is over."\par
""Yes, it is.  This is certainly not the Ranch.  It is a lot like the church I grew up in - except for the guns. More people, too. Here, take Daniel and feed him some crackers.  We are going back presently. Don't feed him in here - take him to the foyer." \par
"Ok.  Deem is taking me to lunch, so I will wait for him here."\par
\par
After Ellen was relieved of Daniel she had to wait in the foyer.  There were hundreds of pictures of young men, and a few young women, almost all in uniform, all looking serious. She knew why they were hung there.  The room was light and friendly, otherwise.  People had come and dissambled a donut and coffee table and had swept that area and removed the trash, and a few people lingered.  She discovered a little disappointment that she was alone, that no one knew who she was.  She also discovered she like the anonymity. One young man came up and asked her if she was a visitor, and she had said yes, and said he would like to take her to lunch. No thanks, she was waiting on her boyfriend. Aside from that she had the time alone, which was unusual.  A few other people came up and were politely social, exchanging a few words and a handshake and then leaving.  The place thinned out, except for the knot of people around Deem.  After a while it seemed like this was lasting too long, and she was hungry.\par
Three people left.  Then two more.  There were five left, and he spoke with each for a minute. Ellen realized this was part of a pastor's wife's life, to wait for people eager to speak to the Great Man. \par
"Ready?" Deem said at last, coming out and smiling at her.  Kyle was following him. \par
"Definitely," she said back.  \par
"You know Kyle," Deem said, "My confidential assistant."\par
"On a date? Like a chaparone?"  Kyle's face was blank.\par
"It takes some getting used to. Kind of like a \i jongedamme\i0 . He is in the background."\par
"Ah.  I don't think it is fair that only the girls go through that."\par
"You being Ranch should know that the young men go through an apprenticeship program that is probably just as rigorous if not more so.  But more to the point: Eddie and his boys are out on bail."\par
"So an armed robbery is not a regular part of the service, right after the offering. They don't do it that way at the Ranch."\par
"No, this is a first time. Hopefully the last."\par
Ellen and Deem climbed into the back seat of his car.  Kyle took the wheel and another man who looked Marine-ish sat in the front.\par
"Chaffeur, too?  "\par
"Yep.  That is Mark.  He also is mostly invisible to us. We're going to a nice little place down in Butler for lunch. It's on the square -  Kyle knows the place.  No one would guess we will be there."\par
They got out of the car and looked around.  It could have been the courthouse square in Nicholls, what with a white limestone courthouse in the middle and two story buildings all around, a storefront on the street level and windows above. The Farm Bureau, lawyers' and insurance offices were around them. There was a Mexican restaurant on the corner. The street was brick.  There were a few cars here on this Sunday.\par
And there was \i La Paella\i0 .\par
"What kind of food do they serve?"\par
"Well, a paella.  Kyle went in  first, and he and Mark took a table across from a booth towards the back. Deem and Ellen slid into the booth.  There was guitar music.  It had a markedly European rather than Mexican atmosphere.\par
"That's mostly rice, I think."   \par
"Oh, tablecloths.  You are taking me somewhere nice."\par
"Yeah, I thought of the vending machine at the Y but I had an extra dime,so here we are."\par
"So thoughtful of you. There is even a little candle. Lit."\par
"I wanted to take you somewhere nice."\par
"Well, you did it."\par
They looked at the menu. "I am glad there are translations.  I thought I knew Spanish."\par
"Senyor, we are Catalan." This was the waitress. "The menu it is in Catalan with the English, not the Spanish and then the English.  Please note that the paella is to order. It will take half an hour to make. And then you must split it."  The way she said 'Senyor' was not the way he was used to hearing it.  He could not say exactly why.  Perhaps it was Catalan.\par
"Then we will order now. We'll take this," Deem said, pointing.  The English was 'Bomba rice, saffron, chicken, pork, green beans, lima beans and sliced Valencian red sausage'.    \par
"And to drink, Senyor?" \par
Deem ordered coffee and  Ellen wanted juice. \par
"What is Catalan?" Ellen was curious.\par
"Part of eastern Spain, southern France and some of the near islands speak Catalan. It is a language unto itself, as different from Spanish, I think, as French is.  They are famous for their cooking."\par
"So, how are you?"\par
"Tired, mainly.  I got night duty with Zeke last night.  He has decided to wake up at 3 AM hungry and wet.  Four nights this week. All in a day's work.  You?"\par
"I am very happy about the attendence today. Everyone is overjoyed to get the church back. If this keeps up we will have to go to two services.  I doubt it will - this is probably temporary, the attendence today."\par
"How was the offering? From where I was sitting it looked like a lot."\par
"The funny thing is, I don't know.  I try not to focus on that too much.  I don't count it, I don't think about it too much, whether too high or too low.  But yeah it looked like a lot. They will tell me Tuesday night at the Elders' meeting, just another piece of information.  Hopefully we can clear our debts soon."\par
"I liked the service today.  I could see myself there regularly.  I was afraid it woould be some kind of, you know, alien experience."\par
"Well, a lot of what happens at the Ranch is from the Eppers.  All the Council are ex-Epper, as well as a lot of the people.  Same background.  I know you don't use the liturgy out there, which is fine - some Epper churches, proper Epper churches don't - but I am sure the commonalities are strong.  From when I've been out there, it seems like the same culture." \par
"Yes.  I don't know about this new pastor they are bringing on board.   Things are a little troubled at the Ranch, I fear, but I am in no position to say anything.  He is more black bread and beets than potato salad.  I think he leans more towards the pastor is over the elders rather than they are equals.  He seems to want more deference or "respect" than I am used to.  I prefer  humility and the whole thing at the Ranch of putting yourself in the background."\par
"You need to be careful there, you know.  You are coming close to accusing him of pride."\par
"Yes, you are right. Sorry. He also is more into evangelism than long-term discipleship and is instituting a training program that is not being well received -"\par
"You mean, that you think is not being well received -"\par
"Well, yes, and ok, it may be down the road, but for now, I am not sure.  He wants to move off of the Ranch's contract system and onto direct monetary compensation.  I am not sure it is going to work."\par
Deem had to keep this to himself.  It was, he thought, a foretaste, as people would tell Ellen things, or she would perceive them, things he would later have to deal with.  There were overtones here.  He wished they could not have the pastorate continually intruding, but there it was, as real as the two armed men at the table next to them, men sitting across from each other and very aware of what was happening around them, so that Deem and Ellen did not have to worry. \par
"At some point you will need to start attending with me. I am not at all pushing the point, not at all. I don't even know if that point is on the horizon," he said that last part quickly, as Ellen was looking upset.\par
"The Ranch is my home and family. One day I will grow up enough to come, and I think a sign that I am not ready is this unwillingness I find in myself, although I think the church in Nicholls is not one I would have trouble with, at least after one visit. But as a \i jongedamme\i0  I am needed by the Pollers on Sundays.  I think I am nowhere near ready to be a wife, let alone a pastor's wife.  I see the grace that Kati has towards her husband and children.  I would like to be able to give you that kind of grace."\par
"You have always been a giver of grace and of beauty to me, from the moment that I first saw you. You slew me with a glance."\par
She was amused by this, warmed by this, then thrilled by this. "Well, I think I am somewhat dimmer in these things.  You can - I mean - anyone can sing of love from a stage and not know what it is."\par
 \par
\line\par
 \par
Deem gets involved in the blueberry patch dispute.  The Muis family had planted it, but for a long time now Breads had maintained it.  They had agreed to alternate years, but they could not agree on whose turn it was to fix it, with both sides claiming it.  It needs a lot of work, so whoever cares for it should get it for two years, and then go back to the one.  Deem suggests they work together on it, which they take as a divine mandate.  They disagree on how it should be gardened.  It is not just a small patch but rather several acres of once carefully maintained vegetable and fruit gardens on the church property that has gone to ruin. \par
\par
Deem learns that Eddie and his boys are out on bail,  \par
\par
}
 