{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Kati's head appeared in the doorway, then the rest of her, cradling Hosea under the shawl. From the courtyard came the sounds of Papa and the boys singing "Yo Ho Ho and a Bottle of Rum" and from under the shawl came the sound of sucking. \par
Ellen glanced at her quickly and then back at the wall. No, she had not changed her clothes, and she had no excuse. Differing dinner dishes were drying on her. It was nothing to how she was feeling.\par
Kati said down beside Ellen.\par
"Sometimes a person just needs to talk," Kati said, after a few minutes.\par
"Do you just want me to go now? I mean, leave? I know I am not up to your standards. I wasn't trained for this, I wasn't raised to be a Yonga-dama, this is a real crucifixion. And dinner....Oh, Lord," she said, close to tears.\par
"Boomer? That can be cleaned up.  What a dog."\par
"Not Boomer. You. Was this your way of telling me to go? Where can I go? What can I do? Maybe there is something else I can do, like clean the chickenhouse, or some other menial, lowly, disgusting task.  Somewhere where someone does not try to arrange a marriage - my marriage - at the dinner table.  The only decent man in the county and you do that."\par
"Oh, I see.  I wasn't trying to make a match.  I am proud, justifiably so, I think, with my work with \i jongedamen\i0 ."\par
"I am work?"\par
"Well, I look at it as a ministry. And surely you can put yourself enough in my shoes to realize that sometimes dealing with you requires patience."\par
"I can see that.  Honestly, I think you are more patient with me than I am."\par
"Nothing personal was meant at dinner, nothing was directed at you and Pastor Futz, not by me, anyway.  Come to think of it, though. Huh." she was silent for a moment. "You just called him 'the only decent man in the county'.  And you blushed red.  Deep red. I was not pushing at all.  I think, though, that perhaps you are frustrated in the present case because here you are being a \i jongedamme\i0  and he is properly not to notice you exist."\par
"It really stinks. Really. I wonder most of the day if I can do this, this whole lowly your obedient scrub-girl humble-pie three times a day and for snacks endurance contest."\par
"Yes.  True heroism is rising to meet a challenge far beyond your own abilities when you would much rather chuck it all and walk away, but you know you should make the attempt, and you don't have any confidence that you will succeed...Pushing past fear that resists your forward movement and that voice that says I can't do this.  You can do all things through Christ who strengthens you.  Even this."\par
"You sound like Mrs. Hook."\par
"We listen to the same Voice.  So please don't read too much into the situation.  I think there is enough written on the wall already.  And in this case, splattered. And you are tired, so things can seem a little out of proportion."\par
"What do you mean?, 'things are written on the wall'?"\par
"Do I have to explain? You are not a child."\par
"No, you don't.  But I am a people person. I am so alone so much of the time. If you have a conversation with Daniel, you know what he will say. 'No, no, no, and furthermore, no'.  The kids are not adult.  Here, you are the only adult I talk to, and mostly it is you talking and me obeying.  Oma can be terrifying.  I know \i jongedamen\i0  are no longer thrashed, haven't been for over a century, but still-"\par
"You do have choir.  But a girl needs friends.  And this is not forever.  Tell you what.  I will ease up on you.  Oma comes from a harder world and thinks you should be tough, because being a woman is, and being a wife and mother is tougher yet even under ideal circumstances.   You were, as you said, not raised for this. But there is a certain standard. We will just take longer to get there.  And the work will not get done while we talk.  The wall and the floor need scrubbing, as well as the porch.  Papa has the boys, so we have just a minute here.  And I will tell you the cake was good."\par
"Did you notice the eggshells in the potato salad?"\par
"I had some in mine.  I wondered where they came from.  I don't think Pastor Futz noticed, and that is the main thing."\par
"I beg your forgiveness.  I was so flustered in the kitchen, I threw them in the salad when I was doing the salad and the cake, and one of the kids needed something, so the shells went in there instead of the proper bucket.  I am so sorry, and to do this with a guest, and to not tell you. I am sorry. It won't happen again."\par
"We all make mistakes. You are making fewer mistakes. But...the walls need scrubbing, so does that carpet, and you can be alone while you do it."\par
"I am alone so much of the time, even in this trailer full of people."\par
"Well.  I have been thinking about something, and I have decided." She looked at Ellen. "Lois, my last \i jongedamme\i0 , is getting married and is very busy with dresses and flowers and invitations and so forth.  She approached me to sound me out about asking you to sing a solo at her wedding.  It would be Paul Stookey's wedding song."\par
Ellen thought that she typically sang her own stuff, and caught the thought and looked at it, then threw it out.   "That would be 'There is love'.  It is written for his voice, very well, in fact. I would - I would be honored. I am a humble handmaid of the Lord."\par
"Yes, you are getting there. Is it too early, would it be painful, tempting, bring back bad memories or habits?"\par
"I don't think so." \par
"Lois would like it.  The request actually went to Elder Cassell from her mother, and he said they were not about to micromanage anyone's wedding. Or anyone's life.  This will get you out of there for an evening and most of the next day, anyway, a good break. Everyone going is Ranch people"\par
"That would be good," Ellen replied. "Is there any concern, you know, because of my past?"\par
"Well, you are ours, for the moment. You will be listed as 'Helen Poller', Soloist. You will be singing from the balcony, where they are putting all the musicians, so the focus will be on the couple. No sensationalist distraction."\par
Kati looked at a picture of Ellen from years ago, singing in front of a large auditorium. \par
"That was the third Stockholm concert, the big one. That was me, then, the big star."\par
"Why are you keeping a picture of something that became a trap? It could become that again. And the way you were dressed!"\par
"There are some good memories.  That was before things went downhill. I will never dress like that again."\par
"Well, hang on to the good memories.  But don't go down that path again."\par
"I was pushed."\par
"I know.  So don't voluntarily take a road that you know ends badly when you were pushed down it the first time."\par
"Thank you."\par
"Start scrubbing? Please?"\par
"Do you think I should throw out the picture, if it is bad for me?"\par
"Why don't you put it away and decide in a few years? Once it is gone, it is gone. You may find it is part of the story of how God has moved in your life, how you fell away and He brought you back.  And there is the scrubbing. I do not want to have to ask again.  That is present and a real need, not an old memory."\par
They got up. "You are a good friend."\par
"That's the plan!"\par
Ellen remembered Oma's tray. She decided to get it, if she was done, and take it to the kitchen.  Ellen got into clean clothes.  Oma was one room over, so she entered.\par
It was very quiet, too quiet in Oma's room.  The food was untouched on the tray. Oma was sitting there, eyes open, looking at nothing, her hands open as if she had been holding something.  A small book lay open, having fallen from her hands. Ellen recognized it as 'De Liturgien Der Kirchen Gottes', the liturgies of the church, in plattdeutsch, that Oma was very fond of.  It was not the first time she had dropped something. Ellen would pick it up and hand it back to her, its text inscrutable in the old German letters but carefully maintained with no marks, no dog-ears, no folded pages. Oma would always handle it with extreme care, and was no doubt dismayed at having dropped it.\par
She knocked politely. "Oma?"\par
No reaction, not a movement. She did not blink.\par
Ellen entered, hesistated.  The only sound was her own breathing.\par
She picked up Oma's wrist to get a pulse. There was none.  Her skin was bluer than normal. "Oma?" she called again, and then carefully put her hand back down.  She retrieved the tray, shut the door quietly and went to the kitchen to tell Kati.  \par
\par
\par
}
 