{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\f0\fs22\lang9 ''My heritage became to me as a lion in the forest; it gave to me, that is it was against me; it roars at me; thus, I hated it.' my paraphrase of Jer 12:8.  This expresses the animosity, even in giving, that Israel had: not with generosity, joy and love, but with hatred: stingy, resentful. Baal got their joyful, overflowing offerings instead.  I should not be stingy or resentful in serving others.  \par
\par
someone whose heart is not right with God discovers they have been stingy in serving someone else: they have been like Israel to God \par
\cf0\par
It wasn't fun any longer.  The novelty had worn off, and Melanie was thinking about splitting. She meant, who wants to cook for a bunch of geeks?  Pious ones, at that.  She was all for Christianity, raised Methodist and confirmed, and Christianity meant hands-on service.  Christ in the flesh.  She had learned there was no supernatural aspect to Christianity, all that was fable and allegory, so all that was left was service.\par
And she had just about had enough.  She had ladled she had no idea how many ladles of potato soup for people in their long lines.  It wasn't hard and she had plenty of free time.  She spent some of it practicing her guitar and singing in impromptu settings - it seemed anytime you picked up a guitar a bunch of people would show up to worship - and sometimes she just wanted to be alone.\par
She would take her guitar and walk, sometimes a mile or more, straight from the camp, and practice her chords.  Her singing voice wasn't bad and she would sing into the wind as she played, rehearsing some of the songs they played. She liked "Like a Little Child" a lot. Most of the people around here had a primitive, superstitious view of God, like he/she was real. They all said 'He' but Melanie thought of God as he/she. In the services people would pretend 'the glory of the Lord' had fallen, and react in strange ways.  Funny to watch, sometimes.\par
She jumped off the edge of the flat area onto the natural prairie, a drop of a foot here. Long ago someone had graded a huge flat area, some people said aliens, others said angels, and all the tents were huddled together in a little area of it, even though it was huge.  You could see where they had pushed debris into pipes here and there.  It looked like there had been a town here and it had been pushed into these piles long ago: wood and broken glass and pipes and trash mixed with dirt.  Strange.  \par
Some things had no explanation.  Like, you could not explain some of the strange things here about God. Interesting psychological phenomenae.  Or unknown scientific principles.\par
"My glory I will not give to another."\par
Who said that?  She looked around: she was alone.  \par
"Is someone there?"  she called.\par
She stood, looking around.  The voice had been close, as if the speaker had been right with her. She looked around again and stood still, waiting for a minute.  Then she shrugged her shoulders. She must be imagining things.\par
She went as far as she could with the tents still in sight.  This was April and the sparse grass was not above the top of her boots.  She had been warned about Snake Woods but had not gone that direction.  She found a nice big rock and checked it carefully for anywhere a snake might hide, then sat down and propped her foot up.\par
"Holy, holy, holy-" she began the doxology.  I am a liar, she thought to herself. I don't have the slightest belief in God, not the slightest.  And what is 'holy'? Does that mean you are a lemon-sucker, like some of these sour people here? Not that they sucked lemons, or were sour.  The people she knew here were a lot happier than the people she had known before coming here.  Why am I here? There was a strange feeling, like the prairie demanded an answer.  This strange, nowhere, way too flat prairie, blase, nothingness.  God made this when he ran out of ideas.  That was the joke.  Why was she talking about God? Because everyone here did.\par
The prairie was waiting for an answer.  This was ridiculous, to be hauled up in court by a piece of dull land that did not have the astonishing flatness of Oklahoma or the mountains of Colorado or even the Ozarks. "I owe you no explanation," she said, and then, "There," as if that settled it.  But it didn't.\par
My life is hollow. WIthout purpose.  I am just putting in the hours. I resent having to do things for the good of the group, as if that was the ultimate purpose of the universe. It's not. So what is?  She had no idea. \par
Fiercely she struck a chord. "Like a Little Child, Jesus - calls? me to come?" she could not remember the words. Or if that was the right note.  She suddenly did not want any churchy music. Just safe stuff from her childhood.  All she had been playing was churchy stuff. So she tried to think of one from her childhood.  She could not think of a single song. \par
New thought: Church is as far from God as anyone can get.  There was no good news in church. No "gospel": it was a hypocritical and dead organization.  People just used it to bepush a political agenda.  There was that Jesus fellow.  She had heard of him.  Things would be different if church was about Him.  If he had ever lived.  All her pastors had always said he was just wishful thinking, that there was no evidence he had ever lived.  Not that anyone ever paid attention to what he had said, whatever that was, especially in church.  What a waste.  Suddenly she hated church: empty ritual, superior-sounding clergy who sponged off the people, feel-good stuff without any meaning. Clanging cymbols. Worthless.  She had heard that somewhere. Church here. But was this church?  Melanie did not know.  The people here brought the holiness to the meeting, not they came to the holiness. Was that the way to put it?  They, themselves, were holy.  What did that mean?  There was something that she had sometimes glimpsed back home in the service, as if something they were all ashamed of, something to be denied and put out, but it was something Melanie was immensely attracted to.  It was to be snuffed out or avoided in church in favor of bulletins, mutual congratulations, seeking power, endless committees and church meals.  You stayed busy so you did not have to think about it, this thing that was behind or underneath, the real reason they were there.  But they hated that reason.  It made them feel bad, and so they made fun of it sometimes and pushed it out of their minds. \par
Here it was different.  This was not church.  Melanie said to herself that they have sacraments and a sermon and they confess their sins and they study the Bible and pray and stuff, and talk and talk and talk and eat and eat and eat.  But they did not pray for show.  They prayed, she decided, to the holy.  Whatever the holy was, the thing that was behind the church, even when the church was a stranger, even a lion roaring against the holiness or a vulture or even a group of vultures gathered around the holy thing, waiting for it to die so they could feast on its corpse. \par
How far from God the church must be.  Suddenly she discovered something: she believed in God. A minute ago, she would not have said she did. But it made sense, now, suddenly, unexpectedly.  God was the holy, the holy One, like the One in the song.\par
"It's all true," Melanie said. "I don't know why I didn't see it before, but there it is, plain as butter on a piece of bread. Nose on my face. Sun in the sky."\par
And there, suddenly, as if out of nowhere, the prairie was full of the Holy, even the sky above and the ground beneath, and she and the Holy danced, and the dance spun around the spinning world with the sun and the stars overhead, and they were singing, and Melanie danced higher and higher with the Holy, and she gasped as she went up, now wet, through the high clouds, even through a sudden high rain, so that she could see the bending of the earth and the blue seas below and the stars came out and they shouted for joy, clearer and sharper and more numerous than she had ever seen them, and then the vision ended, and Melanie was standing there, on the prairie, holding her guitar.\par
"Did that really happen?" she asked, and tipped her guitar.  Water sloshed out of it, cloud water, icy cold, down her leg and onto her boot. "Wow," she said. But her top and jeans were dry. "Wow," she said again. "This is a whole lot better than serving potato soup."\par
The second the words were out of her mouth she knew she had said something wrong. What was it?\par
\par
Elder Berg listened carefully the next day.  It had been the first time she had sat down with him: he and Paul de la Grande were the ones running the place, if you could call it that, although Jeannie was the one running the kitchens, and you could call it that. She heard Melanie out and told her she needed to go see Elder Berg or Paul de la Grande. \par
"I'll go with you if that would help," C.J. said. C.J. always seemed to be where Jeannie was, except she was running errands all the time. Jeannie's Girl Friday. \par
"Thank you, but that's ok," Melanie said, "I'm touched, I really am, but I can do this."\par
"O-kay," C.J. said. "They don't bite, anyway." She flashed that gorgeous smile of hers. Melanie wished she could smile so well.  \par
Did he bite?  He seemed safe enough, sitting there in an easy chair.  Melanie was sitting on the couch.  The place smelled of stone and sawdust - it was one of the new stone houses they were building ever-so-slowly, and they were using it as sort of an office for the Ranch, there really being nowhere else.  There were just the tents and three wooden houses, and this. Even the latrines were tents, and the dining hall and the showers. It was like living in Girl Scout Camp full-time.\par
He sat there looking at her, this mysterious Elder Berg, formerly Bishop Berg.  Did he doubt her? Was she going to be called out as a liar?\par
"You told me that you were raised in church, but they really just went through the motions."\par
She nodded.\par
"It sounds to me like you met the Lord in a very wonderful way. And you believe."\par
"Yes. I believe all of it."\par
"So I am curious as to what you mean by 'all of it'."\par
"Well, the gospel. I mean, what is preached here. I believe it."\par
"I see. Tell, me, do you know what this poster is?" He pointed to it, on the wall.\par
"That is the Nicene Creed."\par
"Exactly.  Do you believe everything it says?"\par
Melanie read it over slowly. "Yes, I do."\par
"You do understand that when you believe something, you live it?"\par
"Well, yes."\par
"Let me ask you this: have you been living as if you believed it?"\par
"Well, yes."\par
"Are you sure.  Take a minute and think about it."\par
She did. \par
"You see, it is one thing to say you believe and another to act like you believe it.  We all run into the fact that we find ourselves in a contradiction here.  I am concerned because I have heard nothing in what you have said about changing behavior.  Jesus is Savior: you seem to have some understanding of that.  However, you need to recognize His Lordship, to act the way He wants you to."\par
"O-oh," Melanie spoke into his waiting silence some three minutes later. "I had not thought of that.  You mean, live like a hypocrite?"\par
"No, live with integrity.  Live what you believe."\par
"Back home they paid lip service to God. I think they worshipped themselves."\par
"Unfortunately that is the case in many places.  The church has failed to live up to its own potential."\par
"Yeah."\par
"The current situation reminds me of Jeremiah 11, where he talks about a desolation they have brought on themselves, and no one cares.  Our whole culture is going to reap thorns, nothingness, emptiness, darkness, because it has turned away from God."\par
"What did the pastors do about it?"\par
"Mainly encouraged the cultural slide.  They were part of the culture, instead of standing against it.  You know of the rot in our city centers? It is because the church has literally abandoned the inner city. It is a lot safer on the outer rim, where the rot has not yet reached. Our cities are falling apart, and so is our culture.  There is no regard for virtue in the entertainment Hollywood dishes out.  Just self-will, which got us into trouble in the garden to begin with."\par
"Hmm. But here we are away from all that, you know? We are out in the middle of nowhere. Eppers have always lived separately.  How can you complain about the rot of the culture if you will not engage in it?"\par
"That is a very good question.  I think you have to say that to the maximum extent possible, you do not want to be part of the evil system.  We are attempting to construct a virtuous society, on based on what is right."\par
"A Utopia?"\par
\line "Everyone tries to build a Utopia, whether in a suburban life style or here. Over in Nicholls, they try to build a Utopia based on Marine Corps values and experience.  I am not sure it is working anymore, or will work, because, altough those values are derived from a Christian context, they are not directly Christian.  I think that derivation may someday prove fatal to their way of life - there is little grace, or that is my impression.  I could be wrong."\par
"This place does not look like Nirvana."\par
"It never was meant to.  'Nirvana' is an eastern religious construct.  It is not the same as heaven, but a sort of reduced version of it."\par
"What do you mean?"\par
"Well, Jesus came that we might have life, and become fully like Him. In nirvana there is no sense of self. The individual is obliterated. We believe the individual is completed, fulfilled, and rejoices ultimately in the great God who created the heaven and the earth. I think they reject all that.  But let's talk about you."\par
"I guess we need to."\par
"When you know you have done something wrong, you need to go before God and agree that it is wrong, tell Him you know it was wrong, and that you  want to change and never do that again, and ask for forgiveness."\par
"I thought I was forgiven."\par
"You were.  You are."\par
"So why do I need to confess my sins? I mean, you didn't use the words, but that is what it amounts to."\par
"Because God and the angels delight in one sinner coming to repentence. It pleases God. You would like to please God, I am sure.  You can break sweet fellowship with God and incur discipline - as if missing His presence was not discipline enough."\par
"And if I don't repent? I mean, I don't feel sorry for my sins?"\par
"Then I would be concerned, if I were you, about my heart being hardened.  We need to keep our hearts soft towards God.  I would confess my lack of feeling sorry for my sins."\par
"Oh."\par
"You can't impress God with your 'good works', either."\par
"How did you know I was going to ask that?"\par
"I just knew. I've had conversations like this with many people."\par
"Do you think there is hope for the wider culture?"\par
"Only if people take the coming devastation to heart and pray and act as God commands. There is no hope except in Christ.  There is no life except in God. Our culture is rotted out, dying, headed swiftly to a dead end.  Currently people are celebrating that, but I think the day is coming that they will cry out because of the meaninglessness of their lives. And many pastors and teachers, even in the church, have taught that life has no real meaning.  The leftists have taken over, or will take over, certain institutions of our society to push their agenda, which ultimately has no meaning.  You can see it in the Soviet system now: there is no meaning.  I think it will fall in all its meaninglessness.  Russia will implode. China will probably, too: they will abandon Marxist-Leninism and come up with some capitalist system in which the government still has control.  That is my guess."\par
"I don't know much about politics.  You know, I don't know much about anything."\par
"That is more than a lot of people know.  There is an enormous amount of knowledge out there. All we can do is dip a teaspoon in the river and drink."\par
"Yes. Well, thank you."\par
"You are welcome.  I have another appointment.  I would encourage you to read the book of Philippians slowly, and on each sentence tell God what you think of it.  Those things you find comforting, tell Him. Those things that are a command, ask God to show you how to follow them. Those things that are a warning, ask God to help you heed it. Any command you have violated, tell God you are sorry you did so and you want to change.  And then ask the Holy Spirit to change you."\par
"That sounds like one of your sermons."\par
"Well, yes.  Thank you for coming by, Melanie."\par
"My pleasure, Elder Berg."\par
\par
"I have been like Israel to God," Melanie stated, as calmly as she could.  Mrs. Dunbar held her hand.\par
"We all have been, but what brings out that statement?"\par
"Well, I met with Elder Berg, and he told me to sort of inventory myself using the book of Philippians.  My heart is so far from God! It is like I don't care about Him at all! He loves me so much and all I ever do is sin!"\par
"Do you sacrifice to idols?"\par
"When I work, I often do it for me, not for God."\par
"Yes.  Do you want to know what I think?"\par
"Yes, that is what I want to know."\par
"I think God is working on your soul.  I see the Holy Spirit changing you.  People notice. You seem a lot more cheerful ladling soup lately."\par
"Well, I am doing it for Christ, now not for myself.  It is a pleasure giving people what they need. They are hungry, and  I help them.  I can actually draw energy from them."\par
"That is good."\par
"You know what? I am thinking about becoming a \i jongedamme\i0 ." \par
"Well, it's not an end in itself."\par
"No, but the women who have been through it just seem so put together, so calm, and yet so efficient and hardworking."\par
"It is meant to prepare a girl for marriage and children. A life of service. You learn to take the focus off yourself and on other people."\par
"You went through it?"\par
"Well, yes.  It is very difficult.  I was dropped, twice, because they thought I was not ready.  But the third time, I finished it."\par
"I can't see you failing at anything."\par
"You didn't know me before.  It is a lot harder if you were not raised an Epper.  The Epper girls come by it naturally - they see their mothers and other girls becoming \i jongedammen \i0 as they grow up.  So they know about it."\par
"Were you an Epper growing up?"\par
"No, I wasn't. But my husband was, and he asked me to do it before we got married."\par
"Wow."\par
"Yes. Typically an Epper engagement is about six months before marriage. Ours was four years."\par
"Oh, my."\par
"It is worth it.  It is really worth it.  And it is needed.  We have a very high birthrate around here."\par
"Yes." Melanie looked at the baby Mrs. Dunbar was nursing as they talked. Her \i jongedamme \i0 was in the background, sweeping, watching her other kids, so that they could have this conversation.  The girl looked very tired but amused by this conversation. Long skirt, simple dark scarf that hid her hair, long loose sleeves.  She was younger than Melanie. Could she be looking amused? It was bad form to interact with a jongedamme on duty unless there was a clear duty: she was essentially an extension of Mrs. Dunbar. \par
"It is a challenge."\par
"You think it over.  It is also a great way to get a lot of selfishness out of the way. Much crying at night, in bed, especially at first.  But you get over yourself.  You lose any stinginess in pouring out your life for others.  Small children can be demanding and ungrateful - you learn to serve these little ones, as Christ serves us.  Often unobserved. "\par
"I would like to get over me.  Christ alone.  Let Him alone shine from me."\par
"That's the ticket."\par
"Who is running the \i jongedamme\i0  program? In case I am interested."\par
 "No one is 'running it'.  Just tell a few women that you are interested. Word will spread, and someone will find you."\par
"Ok. If I am interested, I will do that."\par
"Well, it was nice chatting with you."\par
"My pleasure."\par
\par
\par
"I really do think I trust my own thinking more than God's."\par
Elder Berg looked at Melanie and nodded. He waited.\par
"So I repent, and then I find myself trusting myself instead of God again."\par
"When was the last time you spent some time in worship?"\par
"You mean practicing my guitar?"\par
"No, I mean, \i worship\i0 ."\par
"I sang along in church Sunday, if that is what you mean. I closed my eyes and raised my hands. But I think you mean something a little deeper."\par
He nodded.\par
"I suppose I am missing the boat. Again."\par
"You are. Now, I could give you the easy answer and you would go away satisfied. Or not. But what I want you to do is figure out what it means to worship God. You are pretty sharp."\par
"That is, as I said earlier, a source of pride."\par
"It is also a gift.  Not always are the high places we have trusted in places from where the enemy comes - last Sunday's sermon, if you will remember - they can also be the places where we find God the most."\par
"So I should seek God intellectually?"\par
"No, you should seek Him with all that you have. Heart and soul and strength and mind - all of it. Nothing withheld. All your possessions."\par
"I would think the act of giving God all that is an act of worship."\par
"You would be thinking rightly."\par
"But I did that once.  I mean, it is all His, not mine.  I have not changed that."\par
"What do you think sinning is?"\par
"I see. So...Give it back to Him, like on a daily basis? Better yet, moment by moment. Like  a fragrant, continual offering."\par
"You listen well."\par
\par
At lunch Karen and Dora were also working the line.  Melanie pondered her conversation with Elder Berg. She was enjoying the idea that she was listening well.  Both Karen and Dora had completed being \i jongedammen\i0  and both were engaged. Melanie smiled down at them, because she thought her own thoughts must be more elevated.\par
"Hey, silly, pay attention!" Somehow some potatoes had rolled on the floor. Melanie apologized and picked them up.  Karen looked at them. "You haven't peeled these yet, and you were going to do what with them?"\par
"Put them in the soup?" Melanie offered.\par
"We are not having soup today," Dora told her.  "Please look at the board from now on.  We are having potato salad.  We need the potatoes peeled and sliced, not simply scoured and dropped in the soup."\par
"Sorry."  Nothing was going right, and it continued to go wrong.\par
What had Elder Berg said about the high places being the source of destruction? She was beginning to understand where he was coming from on that, in a new way.  Being smart was no good if you were stupid at the same time.  They cancelled each other out.\par
"You'll have to clean that up," Dora said, handing her a broom and dustpan.  Before today, all they had trusted her with was ladling soup.  Maybe that was all she was good for.\par
"Hang in there, kid," Karen told her, "We all have to learn. Grace and all that."\par
"Thank you," Melanie said, and returned a smile, although it was not as bright as Karen's. \par
She pictured some Baal worshippers climbing a hill in ancient Israel only to find an army of Babylonians at the top. Sumerians? Assyrians? History was one more thing she did not know much about.  Greek was another - most of the people around here seemed to be able to hold a conversation in Koine.  Melanie spoke English, but then there were a lot of people here who spoke English better than she did.  Her high school French, three years, was not at the level where she could have a decent conversation, and she had forgotten most of it.\par
"Why don't you go sit down over there and let us make the potato salad," Karen said. \par
Melanie sat and watched from a distance.  How absolutely humiliating.  They wouldn''t even let her stand behind the counter or at the prep tables, because they were moving so fast. They both had knives and they were moving so fast, cutting and peeling, that she could not even see their hands, just the flash of knives.  Her own cutting had been so slow.\par
"Melanie, dear, can you get us three jars of cucumber pickles? The cucumber dills. They are in that box over there."\par
She found them and brought them.  She managed not to break them, and found herself in the position of waiting until she was asked to get something, whether water or spices or mayo. \par
"They also serve, who also stand at wait," Karen said,"That's something you learn in \i jongedamme\i0  training."\par
"I'm thinking about it."\par
"I know.  The word is out.  Mrs. Olsen is expecting.  Frau Schmidt is also looking for a \i jongedamme\i0 . And Olga."\par
"Olga? She burned out her last three \i jongedammen\i0 .  She is a real terror."\par
"Not really a terror. She is a sweetheart. We will be friends forever.  She was my mentor.  But her standards are exceptionally high."\par
"So anyone whom she teaches will also have such standards."\par
"Well, of course. No wrinkles on her beds!"\par
"Ironed curtains!"\par
"Creases where they belong!"\par
"A fitted sheet folded in six seconds, or practice until you can!"\par
"Those were the days," Karen said, "And Olga made me do it in five seconds."\par
"But you got Tuesdays off."\par
"Did not. I got Friday evening off for courting."\par
"When I get a \i jongedamme\i0 , I will train her properly."\par
"You see, Melanie, the harder it was, the more fondly we look on it afterwards."\par
"I don't know if I want to do it yet," Melanie said softly.\par
"Then you're not ready."\par
"No."\par
Why didn't she know?  Melanie prided herself on her decisiveness.  She despised indecisive people, and here she was, being indecisive.  The Babylonians were absolutely charging down from her hilltops today.\par
"What if I never do it?"\par
Karen and Dora looked at each other. \par
"I guess a lot of people don't do it," Karen said.\par
"Some Epper men will pass you by."\par
"And you may regret it for the rest of your life.  There is a sisterhood of women who have done it, and we all share in that.  You would be shut out of something that enriches us."\par
"Oh, well."  Melanie felt like an underprepared preadolescent or something.  \par
\par
\par
"I think God hates me," Melanie said.  It had been two weeks in which she had demonstrated that anything past ladling out soup was beyond her.  Mrs. Olsen had approached her about being a jongedamme, but she was looking for someone who had more of the basics down than Melanie had.  She had been raised in a family where the microwave was in heavy use, what with both parents working, and anything past macaroni and cheese was a challenge.  Somehow, when she had opened the box of salt, the entire box had poured over her teaspoon and she watched, frozen in horror, as it went into the bowl of eggs. Ruined. \par
"That is a new one," Mary said.  Mary was in her sixties.  She had schooled over twenty \i jongedammen\i0  in her time in her home. She looked at the box. "You're supposed to gently lift the metal piece, not tear the box open," she told Melanie, who wished she was a whole lot smaller than her present two inches in height. Maybe there was a crack in the floor that she could shrink down to and hide in.  Stupid, stupid, stupid.  Oh, stupid!!!\par
"Well, we will find another use for the eggs - they cannot be eaten - "\par
"Did the salt penetrate the yolks?" Dora peered into the bowl. \par
"Why,  don't know.  Let's separate them - but first remove whatever salt we can that has not - never mind."\par
"I'll separate them," Dora offered, and off she went with the bowl. That left Melanie holding the empty salt container.\par
"You can separate the metal piece and the cardboard and put them in recycling," Mary said, and then you can put the chairs on the tables so we can mop the place."\par
The rock floor got mopped three times a day, it seemed like.  It was mostly rock. Someone had gone over it and smoothed out the rough places and filled in the holes.  It looked very much like a smooth stone floor with grout patches.  They had also sealed it with a clear shiny material so it really was smooth. It was interesting to look at, a mix of natural grey rock and grey grout streaks and patches.  Melanie grabbed one of the mop buckets, but Mary was watching.\par
"Chairs first - fold each one - don't put the dirty feet on the table - and lay them so they won't fall."\par
Not that the feet were dirty.  You could do surgery in this dining hall, even it was just a tent.  There was talk of building a metal shell around it to cut the wind down, but so far that was just talk.\par
Abby was down at the other end, starting on chairs.  It seemed like she put eight chairs on tables for every chair Melanie managed to get on the table.\par
When they were done, they met in the second row. "This is humiliating," Melanie said, still breathing hard.  Abby hadn't even broken a sweat.\par
"You'll get there."  Melanie found herself carrying mop buckets empty to the water truck and then full back to the dining hall, about a hundred feet.  Soon the thin handles began cutting into her hands. They were supposed to be drilling new wells and the water from the water truck was not supposed to be drunk, but the day was getting hot, even this early. What time was it, anyway?  She didn't have a watch: few people did, and things were not done on any sort of schedule anyway.  The sun had been up for a while, but people were not yet coming to eat.  So it was early.  It would be a hot, hot day. \par
"You didn't drink any, did you?" this was Mary.  Evidently she had to make sure Melanie was not allowed to do anything stupid.\par
"No ma'am."\par
"Let me see your hands."  Mary inspected them.  "Next time wrap the handles in dish towels when the buckets are full, and that well help. " Mary's hands could have been made out of iron. Melanie's hands were soft and weak and there were red streaks across her palms and fingers from the buckets.\par
"We need more water," Abby called.\par
"That's yours," Mary said, and without a word Melanie grabbed two more buckets, and dish towels from the top of the pile, and headed out the door.\par
Did God hate her?  No, it just felt like she was planting wheat and reaping thornbushes.  There was grace, but there were also the consequences of what she did, like when she was acting stupid, even when she didn't mean to.  And then, sometimes, an enemy would come in and plant thornbushes.  Melanie liked Elder Berg's sermons, because they seemed to speak into how her life was going.  There was her mind, and over there her emotions. Why they could not line up, she didn't know.\par
She brought the buckets back, smiled at Mary, and accidently kicked one over. \par
"Grab another bucket and go, dear," Mary said to her flushed face. How could they use so much water?  They did the floors, then they scrubbed down the chairs and finally the tables with potable water, in case someone ate food that had spilled on it, and then she had to go and get more potable water for cooking and cleaning the dishes, with a different set of buckets.  There was a tank she had to fill, and in order to fill it, she had to carry a full bucket up over her head and then open the hatch and pour the water in.  She managed to do that without spilling much.\par
"Very good,"Mary said.  Melanie was sore from head to foot. "Now please stand over the bread and make sure no flies land on it.  So she stood there.  There were no flies, and she was glad of the break.  The bread was fresh-baked black bread, thinly sliced, its aroma reminding her that she was hungry.  She wondered where the oven was, because she could not remember seeing one anywhere.  You made bread in an oven, but beyond that she knew nothing of baking.  There were trays of bread out on top, and more behind her.  Under the table with the bread was a stack of steel pots.\par
Someone silenced the people for grace, one of the men whose names she did not  know.  Fly! She lunged to scare it off, and in that silence her knee hit the pile of pots.  They rolled around and around, out on the side away from her.  A few people looked, and when the noise was over, someone picked up the pots and put them away.  Not her day.\par
Now people were moving through the line, hungry for breakfast, their plates out.  She gave them each two slices as she had been instructed, placing them alongside the browned potatoes and the scrambled eggs that looked a lot more yellow than normal. There was whole milk: sometimes she could hear the cows, which were kept off somewhere that she had never been.  She'd been told someone had brought a few head of dairy cattle, but the soil right around the Midbar, as they called the big flat rectangular area, was too thin to support cattle.  Further north there was grass, but not here. \par
Finally she could eat. The  yellower-than-usual eggs were really salty. \par
"Usually the eggs are better than this," the girl sitting next to her said. Carla was on cleanup and could not know what had happened.\par
"Yes, they are," Melanie agreed.  You reap what you sow sometimes.\par
 \par
  \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf1 someone whose heart is not right with God discovers they have been stingy in serving someone else: they have been like Israel to God \cf0\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
\par
}
 