{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green176\blue80;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\cf1\f0\fs22\lang1033  \cf2\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\lang9\par
 \b Tuesday June 2, 1863 Murfreesboro, Arkansas\par
\b0 Sheets of rain washed through the forests all day, under gray skies and thundering grey and black clouds and the occaisional lightning strike at a distance. Johnson's Matt and Buck, property of the owner, sat up on the back of the coach.  The driver in front and the two slaves in back were fully exposed to the weather.  The driver, anyway, had a riding coat.   Whenever the coach got stuck,which was fairly often, the slaves were made to get down and assist as necessary.  The driver did not hesitate to use his horsewhip on them if they were too slow to get down or did not appear to be pushing hard enough; any noted hesitation being marked by imprecations from inside the coach, where Mr. Johnson sat alone, being the sole passenger.  He was in a hurry and thought the road wasn't that bad, although the driver often was having trouble finding it in the driving rain.  Over the last three days the driver had become well aware that Mr. Johnson had important business in Murfreesboro and that he, Mr. Johnson, would hold the driver personally responsible for any undue laxity on his part or on the part of the boys, and he would also be rewarded richly back in Little Rock upon his return, provided he gave satisfactory service.  The driver heard this morning, noon and night. He was to spend one night in Murfreesboro and return the next day.  At least there was a stable in Murfreesboro.  Mr. Johnson had hardly left the coach, given the rain, and had left all victualling of his own slave to the driver, as well as that of the driver's own slave.  \par
Alongside the coach was a cavalryman.  His job was mainly to provide some security for Mr. Johnson and watch in case either slave made a break for it.  He also led the spare horses, as the two horses pulling the coach needed to be changed every so often.  He was polite to Mr. Johnson but rather savage to the driver.  The only thing he'd said to the slaves was he wasn't going to chase them if they made a break for it, and patted his rifle. He also was drenched. He'd rather be on the front lines killing Yankees.  He wanted to kill something, and he told the slaves he hoped they gave him opportunity.  Any excuse. He'd been pulled from his unit to make this lousy trip.  Well, you serve your country as it commands, not as you would like.\par
Contributing to the general mood was that Mr. Johnson had refused to stop where they could, but had insisted they continue going day and night to their destination.  He ignored the driver's statement that they would arrive earlier if the horses, at least, could rest, and people needed sleep. Mr. Johnson had said they could sleep later.  But then he snored a good part of the time in his dry coach.  He had also complained to the driver that some rain was getting in, once, and had seen the driver's face upon hearing this remark. He'd  not repeated that or other complaints he'd made after that. \par
Late in the third afternoon the coach rolled into Murfreesboro and stopped in front of the courthouse, one story and wood,  like every other building in town. Johnson's Matt got down and held the door for his master, and Johnson himself then climbed down and entered the bank, followed by his slave. Johnson was in his sixties and it had taken longer than he had wished to make the 110 mile trip from Little Rock: four days, due to rain and more mud than he would have liked.  He was in a hurry to see what he had come to see.\par
"Get the luggage down," he ordered Matt, turning briefly, "and then stand outside until you are called. You are dripping worse than a dog."  The slave obeyed.  He considered chaining him in place for a moment.  Johnson was a little concerned about him running:  Union troops were in Vicksburg: still far, but it was not inconceivable that they would come here, although it was still remote.  And there were Union troops in Missouri. And the border to Indian territory was not that far away.  You had to treat a slave right to keep him or he would be gone, and the war was not going as well as might be wished. It was not like it had been before the war.  Johnson always was concerned about the situation: many of these slaves knew what was happening better than he did, or so he had the idea.  Johnson liked to think he treated his slaves more like employees than property. After all, each was an investment.  Some he had taught skills to and had sold at a profit.  Only a fool would abuse a slave.  He was a good master.  The system had to be reformed, to be sure, but then consider what they had to work with.  Johnson considered himself a wise and benevolent master who cared for his property, and his employees. In that spirit he did not chain Matt.  Matt also knew Johnson, on horseback, would find him and how he had talked about how runaways should be treated. \par
Neither here nor there: Matt was obedient - especially with a Confederate guardian.  He would be fettered for the night anyway, if they did not have the proper sort of quarters.  That was only reasonable.  And here he was with the suitcases. Still dripping, so he was sent back outside.  The coach rolled away with just Buck on the back and the driver in front, seeking the stable for the night.   Also It was cool, but June could be that way.  Perhaps Matt could spend the night in the stable, fettered in the warm straw.  Johnson could see him standing in the rain. He'd been in it for three days: what was a little longer? He would deal with him later.  The cavalryman was now inside the courthouse, watching Matt through a window. He didn't seem to care about all the water he was leaving on the floor and Mr. Johnson did not dare say anything about it.\par
Turning again, Johnson shook hands with another Johnson, his brother, judge to the small town of Murfreesboro and surrounding county.  Both Johnsons were well dressed in three-piece suits, the newer one wrapped in a traveling coat and wearing a stovepipe hat.  But this other white man in the room was in homespun and not particularly clean or shaved. Just a farmhand.  The banker considered that he was without dignity, doing the work slaves did.  \par
"You must be Phelps," the jeweler-brother from Little Rock said, taking off his cloak and his hat.  He automatically turned to hand them to his servant, but realized afresh that Matt was outside, in the rain. No matter.  The jeweler placed them on a chair carefully.\par
Phelps nodded.  He was slightly nervous, a young farmer who had not yet seen his twentieth birthday.  Most boys his age were  fighing the Yankees.  The jeweler wondered why he was not, but said nothing.  Was he shy, maybe?\par
"Wait here, please," they said to Phelps. Then the two Johnsons went into the judge's office and closed the door.\par
The judge removed a wrapped object from the office safe.\par
The jeweler could not help gasping when he saw it unwrapped: a white, colorless gem, larger than his own hand.  In the late afternoon light it looked flawless.\par
"Marvellous.  If it is as you hope, it is indeed enough to pay for much of our war effort, I believe. I will have to examine it in the morning and give you a professional opinion then."  The judge nodded and put it back in his little safe. "Someone cut it - that is no diamond in the rough. From what I saw, it was cut by someone who knew his trade, and I would not expect such to be in the vicinity.  It cannot be stolen, as indeed I would have heard of such a gem, and then there would be the news of such a gem stolen. A most amazing discovery. The size of a man's hand, seemingly.  You don't have any of that photographic process here, do you?"\par
"No, not in this town. We had one man who dabbled in it, but he went off to war.  Sometimes someone will come through town, but no one here has the necessary equipment."\par
"I would have liked a daguerreotype to have been made of that.  To send to some colleagues - perhaps that stone can be identified, as it is indeed cut, and such a stone should be known to someone.  There must be rightful owners who would like it back. One does not simply find a cut stone like that in the wild. It does not happen."\par
"Well, perhaps it has happened."\par
"There must be an explanation."\par
"Phelps does not look like he has the wit to steal such, as it would be guarded, and there is no one around here of the sort of wealth that would allow such.  And diamonds do not occur around here, now do they?"\par
"No.  This is then inexplicable."\par
\par
Outside the jeweler approached the young farmer. "Phelps, where did you find it?"\par
"I ain't sayin'.  People been asking, but I ain't sayin'."\par
"You didn't steal it, did you?" Johnson seemed to think this most likely.  Phelps was unmistakably white trash. This was also ridiculous, but so was the existence of such a diamond here, in Murfreesboro.  The idea of diamonds in Arkansas was quite laughable.\par
"No, sir.  Don't stand to reason, sir, because someone would be looking for it.  Not a word of that, no other claim on it. It is mine, sir, I found it."\par
"Well. I will have to examine it carefully in the morning.  Are there more like it where it came from?"\par
"I ain't saying, sir.  Nothing that big, anyway."\par
"I will give you fifty dollars for it, unexamined," the jeweler offered, watching Phelps carefully. "But you must also tell me where you got it."\par
"That's a lot of money," Phelps said, his eyes widening.\par
"I will examine it tomorrow. It may be worthless, in which case tomorrow I would pay you nothing, and just hand it back to you, or it may be worth a great deal more, maybe much more. Your choice. If you tell me there is an owner, I can discretely return it, telling them that it was found in confidence, and your name need not come up."\par
Phelps thought it over.  "Sir, I thank you for your offer today. But let us see what tomorrow brings."\par
"Let it be that way, then.  I shall know in the morning."  \par
The rain passed and the jeweler was pleased that his room was up to Little Rock standards, although there were no house servants. He dressed for dinner and met a Confederate officer who was looking for recruits. He was in a splendid uniform,including a cavalry saber and cut a fine figure. The jeweler explained to his regret that he could not serve, as he could not see clearly past ten feet or so, and spectacles had not yet been made that would allow him to accurately shoot anything.  He was also far more worth to the war effort as a jeweler in Little Rock than as infantry.  The officer nodded and they shook hands.\par
The judge joined his brother for dinner at the hotel.  The driver of the coach nodded at them when he came in and sat as far as he could from them facing away.  He and the cavalryman were eating together in between long and angry muttering.  They were headed back tomorrow, at least, and could sleep tonight.  Buck and Matt were fettered nicely in the stable and had had some food delivered to them.  \par
Before the meal was served the Confederate officer and Phelps came in together and sat at a table, speaking earnestly.  They ate quickly and left.\par
There was the sound of a drum outside and the waiter came by and said,"Do you want to see them march off?"  Outside ten recruits were lined up before the flag and the officer.  Some had firearms of one sort or another.  There was a cheer from the townspeople as the officer marched off with them out of town eastward.\par
"There's Phelps," the judge said.  Phelps was indeed among the recruits.\par
"Are you going to ask him if he has forgotten about his jewel?"\par
"Tomorrow would seem to bring no Phelps.  In my view he has abandoned all claim to it. If someone is looking for it, that will soon be known.  And how could the owner not be searching?"\par
"That is my view as well. Come, let us eat."\par
The cooking was better than he had expected at the hotel and both Johnsons ate well.  \par
While they were eating a man dressed like a merchant came in.\par
"Gentlemen, I do not intend to intrude, but are those your boys in the stable?"\par
"One is mine," the jeweler said.  The driver and cavalryman had left before this.\par
"They look healthy.  I am proposing to buy him, as I need someone to cut timber and do some labor for me."\par
"What is your price?  And he is not used to hard work, by the way."\par
"He can get used to it.  Five hundred dollars."\par
"Sir, I bought him for more than that, and I hope to make a carpenter out of him. I believe him to be worth more like a thousand dollars.  In a year, two thousand."\par
"No, sir.  That is a harder bargain than I would like to make.  I hope we can depart as friends."\par
"Certainly, sir." They made introductions and the three spent the evening playing cards. The jeweler Johnson was about to retire to his room when there was a sound of many horses outside. \par
"Union troops?"\par
"I hope not."\par
They rushed outside to find a gang of armed men on horseback. It was dark enough they could not be clearly identified.\par
"Hands up and no one gets hurt!"\par
They stood there, hands up,  and watched as the men in the deep twilight broke into the courthouse.  A few minutes later they came out of the courthouse carrying a bag.  They also hit the bank.  The townspeople watched as they assembled.  Most men able to fight, if not all, were off in the Confederate Army, leaving the women and children and the infirm.  \par
The leader turned to the crowd of townspeople. "I am Colonel  Zeke Blythewood and I am fighting for the Union!" He fired his revolver in the air and tossed a few coins towards a woman with a severe cough, and to a man so bent over that he could not stand straight. Then he reared his horse and galloped north, out of town.\par
""I've heard of this Zeke Blythewood. He's raided just about every town north of here.  He operates out of the Burned Zone on the Missouri border."\par
"Yes.  They say he has never killed anyone and has never lost a man."\par
"And I wonder how he knew that the Phelps Diamond was here?"\par
"Good question.  There was an article in the newspaper in Little Rock, but the location was kept secret."\par
"Perhaps you were followed."\par
"Perhaps.  In any case I am sure it is gone.  That stone is worth millions of dollars, Union or Confederate."\par
"My powder's wet," the calvaryman said, when they woke him, and he trembled with rage at the idea he had slept through a raid by Blythewood's gang.  His one chance of doing something honorable this trip was gone, along with the diamond.  Perhaps he could still get back to Eastern Arkansas before the war was over.\par
\b\par
Friday June 7, 1867 Harrisonville, Missouri\par

\pard\cf2\b0\f0\lang1033\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\lang9 The angry crowd filled the courthouse square.  The jail was in the courthouse basement - the stone building was the only one in Cass County that had survived the war. New brick buildings were going up all around the square, promising the return of civilization.  But the crowd was savage.  Zeke Blythewood had been caught, along with all his treasure, amounting to millions of dollars, and the judge was insisting on due process and a trial before any money be returned, and only returned after proper documentation and paperwork.  The judge wasn't all that sure he wasn't the target, and so a number of deputies were protecting him on an upper floor of the courthouse, behind locked doors.  \par
"Bring him out!"  Those who did not have torches had ropes.  "He stole my money!" Many shouted this. "He robbed my bank!" "We want justice!"\par
"He will be tried in a court of law in an orderly procedure," the deputy shouted.  Where, he wondered, was the sherriff?  "This is an illegal assembly!"\par
The crowd roared.  They had come many miles, some of them, and wasn't for a picnic. Blythewood had robbed many towns, some several times, sometimes claiming to be for the North, and sometimes for the South, depending on where he was.  But now he was hated everywhere.  \par
"Anyone approaching will be shot! The prisoner stays in the jail." He glanced at the Mueller men, who were also armed.  They were guarding the wagons full of the Blythewood gang treasure, drawn up neatly on the side of the square away from the crowd, Blythewood's horses still harnessed and chewing patiently. But the crowd was after Zeke, not the treasure.   The deputy fired a warning shot into the air - but before he could reload the crowd rushed him and swept into the jail.  A few minutes later Zeke Blythewood was brought out with a noose around his neck and a great cheer went up from the crowd.  A few minutes later they watched as Zeke went up at the end of a rope, and cheered more when his legs stopped kicking.\par
They turned to the treasure, to divide rightly as they remembered.  Then there was an angry roar: the Millers, and the wagons full of their money and jewels, had disappeared.\par
"Where did they go? After them, after them!" Every eye had been on the lynching. Every horse in town was now mounted.    Some said those Muellers were too smart to simply go back to their ranch, and so many went to the north,  and many east.  Only a few, including the deputy who had attempted to keep the crowd off, went south to the Mueller's ranch.  There were signs that heavy-laden wagons had passed.\par
"Evening Mrs. Mueller," the deputy said.  The same was standing on the porch with her daughters and youngest son, who was only about four. It was more like the middle of the night, and telling that they were all up and waiting.\par
"We are looking for Mr. Mueller," he continued.  \par
"Ja, he has been here but he is not here now."\par
"Do you know where he is?"  The other riders, tired of the conversation, were riding through the farm, searching.  They returned.  "We found the wagons -empty."\par
It took some time, but finally Mrs. Mueller said the men had indeed come by, but in two empty wagons.  They said they were going somewhere but would be back and loaded up their wagons with provisions for a journey.  Hans kissed his wife and headed off westward, leaving his wife, sister and several of his smaller children.   \par
Word was sent back to Harrisonville, and for a time the Mueller Ranch was a sort of base of operations.  While they waited for the Muellers' return, they sent search parties into Kansas and even Missouri.  No one had seen anyone matching their description, until a party returned from Fort Scott.  They had been seen there, headed into Indian Territory.  They were never heard from again.  A search party that attempted to follow was warned not to go any further in the Territory, so they turned back. \par
Back on the Mueller property people also searched for the treasure.  But there was nowhere it could be hid.  Mrs. Mueller soon tired of floors and walls being ripped open and straw and hay bales broken open in the search.  \par
 With time the number of people keeping vigil on the property grew less, until a year later someone was going out there on a monthly basis to see if they had returned.  Mrs. Mueller, unable to run the Ranch with small children, soon abandoned it and its poor stony soil, sold the cattle and moved to Minnesota to live with her sister.\par
\par
 \par
}
 