{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\f0\fs22\lang1033 1950s-1966\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0  \par
Paul de le Grande, former carpenter and seminary grad, visited Jake Profim after his church unexpectedly failed after two weeks.  Jake invited him to live on his newly acquired property, forty acres including the remaining buildings of the World War 2 POW camp that had been deeded to him by a Mueller family of Minnesota (they had read his book). \par
\par
Jake held up a letter. "I received this at church Sunday. It's from a Mabel - no last name. I think I know who it is. A young woman came up to me and told me she 'felt called to pray' for me.  Her name, anyway, is Mabel.  So if you have any prayer requests, I guess you can ask Mabel."\par
\par
"Is she one of those people who maintain she is called to prayer ministry?"\par
\par
"I think she is, and does.  A little prayer won't hurt, now will it? If God calls someone to pray, are you going to object?"\par
\par
"Well, no, it just sounds a little weird or something.  We are all called to pray. Not just a few."\par
\par
"True, but some pray more than others."\par
\par
"God is no respecter of persons. Why should He answer one person's prayer more than another's?"\par
\par
"Well, I guess if the other person didn't pray, there would be nothing to answer."\par
\par
"Right. Okay...Let me talk to Jeannie and see if we can come up with some prayer requests for this Mabel person."  \par
\par
 Paul and his wife Jeannie moved onto it. He built two cabins, a stable and barn (towards Jake's dream to raise horses on the land). Paul enjoyed the peace; Jeannie, his wife, got him involved in the Nicholls Epper church and took on the role of the 'pastor's wife, as Jake's wife was both consumed with children and not very healthy.  Jake gave him the men's Bible study to lead, which quickly dwindled and ended. He preached once as well, being a pastor, and he led the service once, but in both situations he was not asked again, as the decision of the elders. \par
\par
Paul saw Jake excommunicated and laicized, which spurred on Jake's road ministry, as he was now free of pastoral duties and able to reach non-Eppers.  Paul continued to build.  He hired himself out as a carpenter, still living on the land. After all, the buildings needed watching. He looked at the few remaining buildings from the old POW camp but preferred to build new, not rehab, and he thought the old farmhouse, barn and outbuildings far beyond repair.  \par
\par
Paul found the diamond in the old oak tree that had fallen: someone must have hidden it long ago in a hole that had grown over before the tree died.  Neither Jake nor Paul wanted anything to do with the diamond; they dropped it down the old outhouse and shoveled debris in after it.  They never told anyone about this. It was not the sort of thing either was interested in and they promptly forgot about it.\par
\par
Jake told Paul about the legend of the Phelps diamond, found somewhere in Arkansas during the Civil War one hundred years ago, by a farmhand, and stolen by the Blythewood Gang.  Phelps never told anyone where he found it; he marched off to fight for the Confederacy and never returned.  We know of it only from the banker's letter to his brother, a jeweler in Little Rock who traveled to Murfreesboro to examine it but never got a good look at it, having arrived after dark, and a brief newspaper article in the Gazette that appears to have been based on information from the jeweler, who also witnessed the robbery.  According to one story, it was probably in the wagons of treasure that were recovered from the Blythewood gang when they were caught - their first hideout had been found and they were moving their treasure to a new one in Nicholls County when they were caught with their wagons, but the diamond was never found, as the wagons were not searched, only brought to the courthouse. \par
\cf1 The Muellers, local ranchers hired to guard the wagons, snuck out during the riot that occured when an angry mob broke into the jail and lynched Blythewood and some of his associates.  Searchers found only the womenfolk and the younger children on the Mueller Ranch, the older boys being with the men.  Pa Mueller and his grown sons had stopped and shown them the wagons at a distance,  and said they had to go hide the treasure. They did not say where they were going, and the women did not even know which direction they took.  Some of the wagons were found empty. One suggestion is that somehow the Blythewood gang had managed to switch places with the Muellers, and the gang made off with their treasure and the Muellers were the ones actually lynched. No one knows.  Search parties found no one who had seen Pa Mueller or any of his sons again, nor the treasure, including the diamond. The remaining Muellers, then four women, two girls and one boy not old enough to have gone with the men, moved to Minnesota.  They never sold the land, which caused some speculation. The rumor was that they explained to a sherriff in Minnesota that they were hoping for the menfolk to return.  The men never did. Another story is that the Muellers were secretly part of the Blythewood gang and the treasure was stored on their property, which was the entire west half of Nicholls County.  Several other stories rose during the years, all stating that there was treasure hidden on the property, whether from a wagon train traveling from New Mexico to Independence that was ambushed and burned by the Pawnee,or  treasure somehow smuggled onto the property during World War 2 by Nazis when there was a Prisoner of War camp there.  Even wilder rumors were that the Inca had hidden their treasure here from the Spanish, and that the Vikings had buried a chieftain here with a sizeable amount of gold, jewels and expensive artifacts.  There was, however, no evidence of any of this. Despite years of determined searching and digging, no treasure had ever been found. Not one piece of gold, not one jewel, not one piece of leather or box that would suggest there might be treasure.  In places, particularly just south of the old Mueller farmstead, during the 1920s and 1930s, bulldozers had taken the soil away down to bedrock and left massive piles of dirt.  \par
\par
The property was thoroughly searched repeatedly, particularly by members of the Johnson family.  The only area not searched was Snake Woods, the habitat of a particularly venomous snake that feasted on the birds that would take refuge in the trees there. Snake Woods had a reputation for killing many people and had never been entered. Teenagers from Nicholls were particularly fond of daring each other to get close to the Woods.  Every few years there would be a fatality.  No one could possibly have gone in there to hide any treasure, so even the treasure seekers left it alone.\par
\cf0\par
\par
"No one ever looked for it?"\par
\par
"Many have.  It's a funny thing, though, that there are several different stories about treasure supposedly hidden out west of Nicholls, in the uninhabited area - the soil is just too poor to do anything with, even ranch - \par
\par
On the road Jake offhandedly told an Epper concerned about his case before the Committee on Doctrinal Purity that all exiles were welcome at his place west of Nicholls.  That started a rumor that Jake was starting a refuge city of exiled Eppers.  Jake preached a series of messages on the road of the city of God as a refuge city, which was widely misinterpreted to be him founding a refuge city on his land.  Others heard it was to be a charismatic community, still others a center for praise and worship, and others that it was to be a hybrid settlement of all Christians, where Eppers and non-Eppers would live in Spirit-powered unity.  \par
\par
The Dunbars were among the first to arrive.  She brought two over the road trucks full of junk that she said the Lord had told her to bring.  Her husband, fired from his position at the \i Epper Epistle\i0  due to a favorable article he wrote on Jake Profim, and then exiled, began working at the local paper in Nicholls. \par
\par
Aaron Boom, inventor and fixer, arrived within a few days of her. He managed to build useful things out of scrap in a singularly amazing way. On his first night he had a disturbing dream about heading south from the camp and digging up thirty pieces of silver in a field covered with blood.  \par
\par
Wilson, suburban American, was drawn by the novelty and had been kicked out of his Baptist church for speaking in tongues.  He admired the Epper work ethic but somehow managed to avoid working whenever he could, and grumbled when he did work.  He was always angling for one of the houses already built.  His wife Judy however pitched in - she had a degree and experience in hotel management and knew how to feed large numbers of people, something Jeannie later found invaluable.  \par
\par
The first service on site was after Jake had been cast out of the denomination.  Half the Epper church in Nicholls followed him and it was outdoors, liturgical, without electricity, on a sunny morning in the sun.  The next week there was a big tent they had church under.  An early division into two services was when the Russians showed up, Jake being Dutch Epper, and requested the women sit on the left and the men on the right, instead of the mixed seating.  They agreed to do a Dutch-style service and a Russian-style service.  American charismatics arrived who wanted a more contemporary service, and they took the bold step of abandoning the liturgy for a more charismatic style one, yet retaining all the elements of the liturgy.  It initially satisfied no one but with time they came to something they could all live with, and the services became open ended, meaning worship started sometime before dawn and continued until after sunset, with the sermon, Communion and prayer in there somewhere, generally in the later morning.  The Russians relented from segregated seating and a few other matters they had insisted on.  For several months the sermon was delivered once in Koine and then again in English, but it did not seem a good use of time and they went with an English only service.   \par
\par
Roger Sallow was gifted with unusual insight into the situation. He suggested they hold services on the property when it was not yet clear they should do so, and that they should get a tent rather than build something.  He had a number of good ideas but also a number of spectacularly bad ones, such as the idea of forcing everyone into the English liturgy and creating their own Committee on Doctrinal Purity.  He got vetoed on both.  He was an active member from the 1960s into the 1980s, when he and his wife moved with a settlement into somewhere in Kansas. \par
\par
Roger also was a defender of Paul against some grumbling - Paul, he said, walked with God, neither ahead of Him nor behind Him, but beside Him as a friend, in harmony with God.  What was important to God was important to Paul; when God moved, Paul moved, and when God was still, Paul was still.  He cited Ezekiel 1 and 10. Like Abraham he was the friend of God.  But Roger also was not afraid to respectfully rebuke Paul when necessary, although that was seldom.  On rare occasions he would tell Paul a decision would have to be made.  Paul referred to Roger in later years as a latter-day prophet, but Roger rejected the title and the office.  He said he was just a Christian living as obedient a life as he could, and was no prophet. \par
\par
"I tend to think evangelicalism is dead," Jake said one day. "Encrusted, rusted, rotted; we care more about doctrine, and I mean doctrine in its dullest, driest, most dreary form, and we care more about how right we are than about living truth and the living God. Every year we need to shake off whatever theology has grown stale and let it grow again.  Let the leaves fall and sprout new growth, prune the dead branches iin us and show the world we are living branches on the true vine, not dessicated, dry leafless, joyeous brittle branches that should just be tossed in a fire."\par
\par
"And what form should that new growth take?" Paul asked him.\par
\par
"I don't know.  If I could point someone in the right direction, I would.  There is much to commend in this charismatic movement, but there is also much that dismays me. God is alive but He is objectively true. So much of it seems to be tingles and irrationalities, even anti-reason rather than grounded in truth.  I fear for us Eppers. It seems we have gone too far in one direction and there may be no return. As if we ourselves have died and we do not know it yet."\par
\par
"We are the walking dead, as you put it not so long ago.  Revived yet mortified. Alive to the things above, dead to the things of earth."\par
\par
"Yes."\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f1\lang9\par
}
 