{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red155\green0\blue211;\red0\green77\blue187;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\f0\fs22\lang1033 May 1979\ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 viewpoint of Luke Kikker\par
\par
\cf1 The area where human waste is dumped and is turning into a lagoon is called Tophet. Items that cannot be recycled (very few) wind up here and trash (little) is burned here. It is located about a mile southeast of Hair Bair and the same northeast of Snake Woods.\cf0\par
\par
The old quarry was cleaned out and quarrying resumed. Serenity4U had been replaced by Ranch personnel. White, Black and Jones was only on retainer.\par
\par
A group of people showed up claiming to be refugees: one man, twelve women, and a boy.  They asked for asylum and room to live.  Were they Christian? No, they laughed, we are not.  What are you? We follow an ancient and honorable and peaceable religion, one we do not name out of respect for it.  Something made CJ uneasy, but there is the ancient Epper tradition of hospitality, so she said they could stay overnight.  They had everything they needed and would like to set up separately, as they had sheep and goats with them. Perhaps to the south?  She said it was fine for the night but she expected there would be questions before they were granted any sort of permanent status. \par
\par
The next day John Cassell and CJ went down to talk to them: John had many questions and was uneasy about this.  One of the group broke off from the others and approached them.  She said John and the other Christian could not near the group as they were performing a secret ritual.  He could see the smoke from a fire going up from behind the others, who were chanting.  Everything seemed off, somehow.  There was something evil about the whole thing.  \par
\par
"We are staying," their leader told them after crossing the distance. His hands and cheeks and chin had fresh blood on them.  There was a fierce and wild look in his eye. CJ thought him capable of anything. Anything. \par
\par
"That's blood," John said.\par
\par
"Yes, we have sacrificed.  Our god has accepted our offering and said this is where we are to be. As I said, we are staying."\par
\par
"I cannot permit that," John said.\par
\par
"You have no choice." The leader looked smug.  John decided to returrn the next day in force.  He asked for prayer that night from all the prayer teams. Many of those praying said they sensed resistence to their prayers.  Around the south end of the camp, particularly among those not following Christ, there were strange moans and apparitions in the night.  There was insistent knocking on doors and windows, but no one would be there.  People had nightmares.  One entire family got up and left in the middle of the night and never returned.  Few slept well anywhere - some were called, they said, to pray all night, and others only got restless sleep, with vivid and disturbing dreams. \par
\par
The next morning John and twenty men, armed, went down to pay the newcomers a visit. Their camp was deserted.  They had left in a hurry, on foot, leaving everything behind.  Sleeping bags were in their tents as if they had woken in haste and fled.  There were boots and clothes scattered as if they had run south, directly towards Snake Woods.  Possessions had been dropped and they had fled.  They also found an altar made of uncut stones, and on it was the burned and blackened skelaton of a goat.  There was no sign of their other animals.  \par
  \par
On the rock around the altar someone had incised a pentagram, and there were the pools of black wax from black candles that had been burned all the way down.  \par
\par
There was no sign of them aside from this.  The area was searched.  Snake Woods, of course, was not, and the vegetation there was so thick you could not see into it.\par
\par
They piled everything the people had left into a large pile. They found spell books and literature containing things they never described.  It all went into the pile.  They knocked over the altar and scattered the stones and the goat bones.  Two days later they returned and burned the pile. It gave off a foul odor and burned for days, so watchmen were required.  They obliterated the incised pentagram as best they could.    From that day forward that area had a strange feeling about it - no one went there willingly and nothing was ever built there.  It was called Gehenna and avoided. Nothing was ever seen of those people ever again.\par
 \par
At this time most of the ex-Eppers had formed settlements on the property or had left, and most of the people in the common area, now Hair Bair, were non-Epper, many of whom were passed over by the ex-Eppers in forming their settlements due to lack of skills, personality problems or cultural differences.  The ex-Eppers were typically suspect of American charismatics, finding thime overly emotional, shallow and lazy. The Eppers who remained in the common area felt called to talk care of their Christian brethren. Those who could work worked, mainly outside the Ranch.  Some could not work, and they were cared for.  Those who would not work were asked to leave.\par
\par
Johnson Bank filed another lawsuit, this time in Nicholls.  John Cassell was in court when the trailers suddenly arrived, and were haphazardly left together in the flat area of the old POW camp not far from the gate. People immediately moved out of the tents and into them and refused to move out.  When John returned later that day, he was quietly but absolutely furious - Jake had bought them without telling him, or anyone else, and there were various appurtenances, such as trailer skirts, utility hookups, steps, leveling pads, etc., that Jake knew nothing about and had not provided for - John also knew nothing about them.  Nor did anyone else. Jake had just bought "trailers" and they were delivered, suddenly, all in one day, by train into Nicholls and then hooked up to trailer cabs and dropped off as quickly as possible. The cabs kept returning to Nicholls to get the trailers, which had arrived by train, and after dropping off all the trailers, the cabs left  As they had separated the tents into two future settlements, and now they were mingled, this destroyed the separation.  Moving trailers would require getting a suitable cab and expertise, as well as removing families determined that their tent days were over, and money, etc., so the trailers stayed put.   \par
\par
Luke found a burned-out wagon train: bleached wood of the train south of Snake Woods.  Iron parts and some wood could still be seen. He heard the theory that it had been hauling gold from New Mexico, or maybe it was as in the Mueller myth.  The later settlement of Wagon Wheel was named after this, and the settlement kept it in a park as a display. \par
\par
A marijuana field someone planted in the out-regions had been burned last year, and the year before.  This year they found it booby-trapped.  They disabled the booby-traps and burned the field again.  If that land could be used for pot, it could be used for a settlement.  They urged a settlement be built near it, to farm it and prevent its reuse as a pot field. \par
\par
People also were camping and leaving burn circles and trash behind, which animals would go through and tear up.  Luke had to clean some of this up, including used needles, beer cans, paper plates, styrofoam, human waste, soiled disposable diapers. They were also digging holes. Luke wondered who they were, and if they were hunting for treasure.\par
\par
Mike Profim, Jake Profim's son, was called as pastor in 1992 over newly arrived, nationally known charismatic ex-Epper Pastor Peter Muis.  Soon Mike took a pastorate in California at a non-denominational charismatic church. Some say he was forced out by Peter Muis, others said it just did not work out.  \par
\par
Pastor Peter Muis was then called.  He tried to turn the place into his personal evangelical empire. He would do a grand entry on Sunday mornings into the sanctuary surrounded by his body guards, who would then surround the stage.  He did no counseling and no direct working with any member of the congregation. He had, on the side, a scandalous relationship with a number of young women supplied to him by a shady character named Eddie.  One of them killed him in his sleep and vanished. \par
\par
The Council of 12 decided to wait for the Lord's clear timing for a pastor.\par
\par
The wait for stone houses was long.  People did not wait until they were completed before moving in.   The existing settlement, which became Hair Bair, was meant to be capped at 250 families (250*4=1000 people, still very big for Eppers), and a second settlement, Hair Mayam, was constructed near the water tower. The third was to be near the quarry, with more settlements to follow. They had six thousand people in the trailers, with more arriving and being born.  Everyone understood this would take years. One house was built at Hair Bair, then one at Hair Mayam, and then more people were asked to join in the stone work.  All those who could did for a while, which increased the rate of production some, but the bottleneck was the low number of final stonefitters, a craft that took years to master. They insisted the houses be built right, and after others attempted one, the final stonefitters disassembled it, trimmed every stone, and fit it correctly. \par
\par
Some new-comers, particularly Jedidiah Banknott, offended the townspeople of Nicholls with behavior intended to be evangelism. He went door to door with a four-question survey, itself innocuous, but got in a shouting match with a few people when Jedidiah did not like the answers, being rather anti-Catholic and a number of the people were firmly Catholic.  Keith Berg had to track down who this was, as he received complaints.  Keith Berg speaks on this, repeatedly, on Sundays, as well as counseling those who offended, when he can determine who it was, which is not always possible. Keith Berg was scheduling the Sunday services, preaching, training the worship team and supervising small group leaders, but did not call himself the pastor and refused to be called the pastor, saying he was only a steward until one came. He resisted supporting overtly charismatic efforts, but allowed them. \par
\par
"This is the omphalos, the center of the universe, the navel," Simon Brot said, gesturing to the south."\par
\par
Keith looked at him.  "Most people sense something evil there, something unholy even, if they sense anything at all."\par
\par
"It is good, it is very good. Power flows from there. Do you not hear it calling?"\par
\par
"I am a little concerned - rather, greatly concerned - by your attitude towards it. Fascination, even.  You are, I believe, in great spiritual danger."\par
\par
"With due respect, bishop, these things are truly only to be seen by the inner knowledge given to those initiated into shhterniggeit. I cannot expect you to have inner light, walking in blindness as you do."\par
\par
"I think you say these things at your peril."\par
\par
\f1\lang9\par
\f0\lang1033\par
\lang9 Simon Brot found the diamond, guided by shterniggeit. He took the diamond and advertised shterniggeit "it got me this - interested? It is the baetylus. There are none like it, and it called to me." A dining hall full of Eppers were not interested: in fact they felt a sense of horror, as if he was worshipping an idol, and they rebuked him.  He took it, saying it was leading him, and threw himself into the ravine in Snake Woods, followed by a few people who stopped at the top of the slope down into the Woods.  \cf2  \cf0 It was not regarded as a good thing, but was dangerous because it was so attractive. Luke found himself tempted to go find it and keep it for himself, and so did the others who had seen it.   Very few knew of it, or where it was, yet someone from outside the Ranch offered large amounts of money if they tell him where it was.  It was tempting to take the money and no longer feel the pull of the stone, but that might have been a lie.   \par
\lang1033\par
Tipharah: The People of Praise, as that defined something of what Ranch spirituality consists of, or rather, what it does not, who rejected work in favor of praise, for example, and thought God would provide, like Elijah and the ravens.  For the Ranch Eppers, work IS praise and is wrapped in offering it up to God, not as an end in itself or merely to provide materially, but as embodying materially what the TTPoP stressed was purely spiritual.  They always found someone else to do their work for them, which is why they were asked to leave.   They continually prophesied a health and wealth gospel with antinomian elements.  They were heavily influenced by the Elijah Company, although there was no overlap of actual members, just some hangers-on.\par
\par
Twelve aurochsen arrived from a settlement in upper New York state along with their newly exiled handlers. The Eppers call their breed of very large cattle aurochsen: something like Heck cattle, but originating centuries earlier, or the original breed or aurochsen bred with other cattle is now unknown.  There were concerns about overgrazing already tenuous land. The cattle were northern European in origin via New York and needed shade in the summer. They did not do well in Missouri summer heat without water spray, shade, and plenty to drink.  They were also tick and fly magnets and need to be closely watched.  The Council of 12 considered running buffalo on the Ranch instead, but the aurochsen were a beloved part of Epper culture.  These ex-Epper handlers set up their settlement with everything in common without personal property, everyone eating together and living together instead of being in separate households. Children were commonly raised.  They honored the sanctity of marriage, however.  They were regarded as truly heretical and although still Christian, sort of over the line with their political structure.   It did not work, and a few years later they moved back into the traditional Epper structure, their experiment finished.  \par
\cf1  \par
\par
\cf0 In 1980 corporate raider Ahab Cane Johnson bought a bank in Harrisonville. Johnson had acquired a reputation for massive wealth via hostile takeovers, raping companies and moving on with the profits, leaving shattered lives, companies, businesses behind him.  People who met him spontaneously described him as disgusting, repulsive, utterly foul, vindictive, petty, greedy, carnal and unashamed. The lobby had several displays concerning the Nicholls Treasure and a painting he commissioned showing the Blythewood lynchings while the Muellers, in the background, make off with the treasure. The Muellers were repulsed by some overtures he made, which may be a consideration in why the Muellers gave it to Jake Profim instead. The Ranch had turned down his offers to finance treasure hunts.  He later purchased the Nicholls Bank and added displays about the treasure, antagonizing the town as he removed a display listing bank employees and custormers who had served in the Corps. He or his agents  made numerous attempts to take the Ranch, and later Kikker Industries, willing or no.  Johnson himself is not seen until the last chapter.  \par
\par
The trailer court east of Nicholls was not yet a bad place.  Johnson was in the background as a major property owner - he bought the Nicholls Trailer Court, just east of town, as well as some distressed ranches in the county and leased them back to to the previous owners, at a loss to them.  Likewise with some properties in Nicholls. Some people from the Ranch fell for it with properties in Nicholls -Johnson owned the dry cleaners, among others: people of his are willing to manage it for a fee plus passing through all expenses and profits/losses go to the owners. Read that as losses, because between the loan and the fees, there was no money to be made but taken. \par
\par
Johnson bought the bank. People had to be careful what they said, as it would get back to him.  This was resented, and people began taking measures against his influence.  There was a quiet, slow war between the town and Johnson and the people he controlled. He also contributed heavily to candidates of his choice, many of whom later resented the contributions. \par
\par
Johnson Bank's lawsuit against the Ranch was finally settled with a jury trial in favor of the Ranch after twenty years of legal manuevering. Speculation was that they were trying to burn up the Ranch's finances in legal fees.  Most of the Ranch lawyers worked pro bono against Johnson Bank, who had made a lot of enemies. \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f1\lang9\par
}
 