{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green77\blue187;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9  \b0 "It happens sometimes," Jake said, pouring coffee for his friend. Although Jake was some twenty years younger, Jake and Paul de LaGrange had gone through seminary together and had become good friends. "As you know, Eppers are far from perfect. Christians are not perfect, just forgiven, as they say."\par
"Yes," said Paul.  He looked out the window at the fall day, which was blowing leaves down the quiet street in the town of Nicholls, Missouri. It was Monday, November 7, 1966.  Jake looked quickly at Paul. Despite everything, he was at peace.  Paul had spent twenty five years as a carpenter, had heard the call to pastor, had struggled through seminary, waited patiently six months for a call, gotten called, arrived, settled in, and then the settlement blew up. It disbanded. It was no more: some people had joined another new settlement, others an existing one, and a few people had scattered to the wind.\par
"I must take it personally," Paul said slowly,"I suppose I must. I must accept personal responsibility for what happened."  He was not at all perturbed; he said it in the same tone he would if he told you his wife wanted him to pick up a loaf of bread on the way home.  He slowly stroked his new, full beard, the sign of an Epper pastor. He was was still not used to it.  He wondered why Jake kept his beard very short.  It would be intrusive to ask. \par
"It's best to get that out of the way as soon as possible, and then move on. That salves the pain, staunches the wound, promotes healing."\par
Paul cocked an eyebrow at him,"I am not sure you got the order right."\par
Jake looked him in the eye.  "Neither am I.  Now, why must you take it personally?"\par
"Well, I didn't look deep enough at them. I didn't see the cracks already forming. I had no idea." There was helplessness, astonishment, but no anger, no bitterness, no sense of abandonment by God. This was an impersonal, unbiased, factual, careful and unemotional assessment.  \par
"I don't think anyone else did, either.  Not even those who were there and should have seen it coming, and headed it off.  This came on them unawares, it seems.  On behalf of the bishop I talked to a number of people involved: he had asked me to investigate exactly what had happened.  The really ugly part had had nothing to do with you.  You don't need to ever know about that, and there is no need to discuss it.  It involves people and a situation that you do not need to deal with, and in all likelihood you never will."\par
"I didn't preach well enough? That wouldn't have solved the issue?"\par
"It wouldn't matter.  Between the time you accepted the call and arrived, they had decided to break up. Is it your fault they didn't tell you what they didn't know yet? That they hadn't really fully decided, until they saw a new pastor in place, and they said, no more of this?"\par
"No."\par
"Let's try this," Paul said. He spoke in a slow deliberate way, his normal pace. "I didn't hear God."\par
"You thought you did."\par
"I know I did. Others confirmed that."   Jake nodded and said,"I had been one who had confirmed it.  That settlement had kept its secret well, and now there was no going back, no healing that particular action, and forgiveness necessarily required the separation of some people. But it had looked fine.  God had allowed you,  an innocent man to walk into that. It was like you had bitten into what he had thought was a roast beef sandwhich, only to discover it was full of broken glass."\par
Paul nodded. "But I know there are others in worse situations. I am not personally hurt, it is just I don't know what to do with my life, or what God wants.  That door is shut." \par
"I've been looking into these Dead Sea Scrolls.  Quite exciting.  But allow me a little history and paint a little picture:  in 68 AD the Roman Tenth Legion, which had been founded by a young Roman named Gaius Octavius - we know him better as Augustus Caesar - showed up to quash the Jewish rebellion.  The people at Qumran got wind of it, put their library in the caves in those clay jars, and fled, never to come back.  We think they were Essenes, but never mind.  They were a lot like Epper separatists in a community.  There has been a lot of interest in them as our forbearers - them and the schools of the prophets in the Old Testament.  But the settlement was abandoned.  Why?  Was it because of the Romans? Probably.  They put a garrison there for decades. Bad leadership? Internal divisions?  Did they relocate or scatter? Did they go to Jerusalem and perish in the siege? We simply do not know.  We can speculate, but that is it.  We may never have the full answer to that on earth. And you know that often we never know the full answer - sometimes not even a partial answer.  We do not know the Why but the Who. You cannot blame yourself for this one.  You can only trust the one who knows all, provides all, who is good and all wise.  Is it possble you were called to this settlement for that week and a half, and those two Sundays?"\par
"I am always amazed at your grasp of history.  I thought it was Vespasian and his son Titus, who later became emperors themselves, but never mind.  It is possible.  You remember Karl Pol?"\par
"They were involved in what Josephus called the Jewish Wars, but, yes, I remember Karl." Immediately after ordination he had suffered a heart attack and died, right there in the pulpit, five minutes into his first sermon as a real pastor.\par
"I don't think you can blame yourself.  I am pretty sure that is what the bishop will say. In fact, I am certain."\par
"You are? How?"\par
"Because, as I said, he asked me to look into this, and I have, and I agree with you.  They did you dirty. Not willingly, but still. But someone had to be there.  Somehow had to supply their pulpit and -  Can you forgive them and move on?"\par
Paul sat for a minute.  Jake knew him well, he was thinking.  Paul took his time, was very careful, thought things through.  Good wheels, only somewhat slow. In all likelihood if he put his mind to it he would figure it out exactly what had happened. Only he never would. There was no need.  That was the past, to be forgotten, and there was a future to be pressed into. Paul was also pragmatic to the point of having no curiosity beyond what was needed for the task at hand.  Resilient, too: something the seminary drew its students into. Paul would pick himself up, dust himself off and do what God called.  Beyond the Greek and Hebrew, that is what he had been trained to do: set  the example for a flock and understand what life was like for laity.\par
"Already done.  I don't know that someone had to be there. I will pass on that, if you don't mind. But I am not sure what my next steps are.  I am not sure where to go, what to do."\par
"Forgive me for stating the blatantly obvious: you need to hear God.  "\par
"Yes, yes I do.  Some time alone, some long silences, some long quiet. I will have to candidate again, but that will be next year, barring a sudden opening.  I believe all the open pulpits are filled.  What I would like to do is find somewhere I can reflect on this, restrengthen myself for another go." He looked at Jake, who seemingly had never known defeat.  Jake had brilliantly graduated from Stanford at age twenty and at the top of his class in seminary at age 23, completing the seminary's toughest five year program in three years \i magna cum laude\i0 .  He had been courted by churches and post-doctoral programs, wanted in a dozen places.  Without envy Paul wondered how he could understand someone that it seemed no one wanted for a position anywhere. Paul knew God would provide, but he felt as bleak as the weather. Now was a light wind, but there were winter storms ahead.  Paul feared a hard winter was coming, in more than one way, but storms were part of life. It was better if you let them pass. Patiently endure them, and then they would be gone and you would remain.\par
"I have just the place.  You know my little retreat land outside of Nicholls?"\par
"You have mentioned it is there, but never told anyone exactly where it is."\par
"I don't want uninvited guests.  It is deserted now. There is just the old farmhouse and the old barn, and some really dilapildated out buildings, but you can take a camper out there. Stay as long as you like. Really. I mean it. I'd like someone out there to watch it. I have some acreage, forty acres, on the old Mueller farm, given to me by someone who read my  book, and I have no idea what to do with the land.  Maybe hunting.  Maybe I will raise horses someday. I used to read all those books about raising horses when I was a boy.  There is plenty of land for that."\par
"Isn't that where there is supposed to be treasure buried?"\par
"That's an old story. There are different versions, from the Spanish hiding Inca treasure, even the famous golden chain of Huayna Capac,  to the Italian POWs who were out there hiding gold, to the Blythewood gang in the Civil War.  Even a Pawnee raid on a wagon train. And El Dorado, the city of gold the Spanish were always searching for."\par
"Strange that there are so many stories about it, and they all center around hiding gold out there. Huayna Capac - that gold chain was down in South America. It is downright bizarre that anyone would think it was here."\par
"Yes. It is very strange.  I don't know how, or why, they started.    Let me tell you some of the most plausible story, from what I have heard, anyway, which may or may not be correct, and there is probably more to it.  Let's see....During the civil war a bank-robbing gang operated from this area headed by Zeke Blythewood.   They robbed banks, stole cattle, pillaged crops and raided general stores. This area was the depopulated area between Cass and Bates County, whose population had been ordered removed by Federal Order General 11 in 1863. Under the pretext of being guerillas they robbed every bank in estern Kansas and likely every bank in western Missouri, as well as committing robberies in Iowa, Nebraska and Arkansas. \par
"Zeke Blythewood's signature line, on leaving a town, was to loudly boast that he was Colonel Zeke Blythewood (he thought "General" to be pompous) , and he was fighting for the Union (in Confederate territory) and for the Confederacy (in Union Territory).  Then he would fire his revolver, his horse would rear and he and his would gallop out of town, scattering a few  coins to people as he went. This allowed a quick giveaway until people realized he had taken all the rest of their money, jewels and gold and silver. It is remarkable that he never killed anyone and never lost a man. \par
"In late 1865, after the end of the war, Zeke and his gang were tracked down and caught with over three million dollars in cash, plus silver, gold and jewelry.  While in the Cass County jail in Harrisonville they were being guarded by the Millers (sometimes spelled Mueller, or Muller, or Muelher or even Murler), who  were beginning to build a ranch west of where Nicholls is now.  A large mob demanded Zeke and his gang be hanged. They were lynched, but in the uproar Hans Mueller and his sons disappeared, along with a number of wagons full of gold and silver.  They had been entrusted to guard said wagons. They said they were taking them to safety on account of the riot.\par
"When a posse came to the Mueller ranch to recover the valuables, the womenfolk said the men had indeed come by, but in two empty wagons.  They said they were going somewhere but would be back and loaded up their wagons with provisions for a journey.  Hans kissed his wife and headed off westward, leaving his wife, sister and several of his smaller children.   They never returned.  The rest of the wagons and horses that had been in Harrisonville were found on the Mueller property, but not any of the gold or silver or jewelry. The Muellers' trail was lost on the plains by those pursuing, and there were hostile tribes in the area at the time, so they were not pursued far. Many have searched for the gold and silver, but  it has never been found.  It is believed to be buried somewhere on the old Mueller Ranch.   People think Zeke Blythewood told Hans Mueller where he had buried the treasure, or somehow the Muellers were in on it, and Hans hid this treasure with the rest of it, wherever it went.  The wagons in Harrisonville by no means held everything Zeke stole."\par
"So people think the Muellers were in on it?"\par
"Who knows? Was there anything to it at all?  But Mrs. Mueller and her children were never wealthy. Perhaps the Mueller men were in on it.  Perhaps they even came back and got the treasure later and no one knew about it.  But not a word or a penny did Mrs. Mueller ever get from them again. Some people think they went into Oklahoma and were massacred by the Indians."\par
"Today the missing money would be worth around 42 million dollars. Based on an inventory of the jewels and gold completed before the Muellers vanished, the total value of the missing silver, gold and jewelry today would be upwards of 25 billion dollars. It is possible the value today might exceed one trillion dollars.  All that has to be somewhere.  It has never been found, and the best evidence is it is somewhere on the Mueller property. If it is, it is very well hidden."\par
"The famous Phelps Diamond alone, reputably the largest diamond ever found in the United States, was taken in a raid on Murfreesboro, Arkansas.  Phelps had never revealed where or how he found the diamond, according to the county judge, who had some familiarity with diamonds, internally flawless and colorless and "bigger than my fist".  A jeweller from Little Rock had come out to examine it, and had seen it and verified it was a diamond, both colorless and flawless on initial examination, as well as large, but that night was the night of the raid.  Its worth alone would be in the hundreds of millions of dollars.  And it was not the only gem taken.  But the wagons were searched and it was not there.  Obviously Zeke must have hidden it."\par
"Fancy that, Jake.  You may have been given a fortune."\par
 "All that area has been extensively dug up by treasure-hunters, whose activities peaked in the 1930s. Probably the Italian POWs were used to search for it as well. During the late 1960s someone brought in excavators and bulldozers. They tore up hundreds of acres but found nothing. They ruined most of the land around the old farm buildings.  As the Muellers had abandoned the property, out of state relatives that were legally found to have the right to the land gave  them permission to dig, but the land appeared totally useless for any commercial purpose.  I think it was donated to  me maybe out of some overly developed sense of gratitude or a tax writeoff.   A little known fact is that the Muellers reserved mineral rights.  This has mostly been forgotten as there are none on my  property, which is mostly limestone stripped of topsoil, with just enough soil to feed a few head of cattle. The family abandoned the Ranch in the late 1860s and that entire half of the county has pretty much been left alone ever since."\par
"Well, I'm not at all interested in it. If it is there, leave it lay, until the Good Lord reveals it. Fools run after such things.  'For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs.'   Beware of the fate of Achan.  And 'And do not vainly hope in robbery; If riches increase, do not set your heart upon them.'. And 'Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal.'   Give me neither poverty nor riches, Lord.  Are people still interested in it?"\par
"Most folk in the Nicholls area look on it as local legend, mostly forgotten, maybe a just a story that makes the lynching of some small-time bank robbers in the late 1860s more interesting, maybe spread by Rufus Mueller, the youngest of the Mueller boys who was left behind when his father and brothers took off west and later came back here.  But he died long ago, and maybe the truth with him.  I know he came back, or people say he did, but I don't know what he is supposed to have done or how long he stayed."\par
The one noteworthy feature of that expanse of land is Snake Woods, a thin strand of thick trees and boulders that has never been fully explored.  It is the home of the endangered Golden Headed rattlesnake that lives here and nowhere else.  These snakes are aggressive and their venom is quick-acting and always lethal.  Anyone in the vicinity of Snake Woods can hear the rattle of the snakes, which will go into the tall grass around the wood to hunt mice, although mainly they prey on birds that roost in one of the few wooded areas for miles.  People have always given Snake Woods a wide berth.  The last death from snakebite was last year - teenagers like to sneak onto the property and see how close to Snake Woods they go.  The victim died in less than five minutes. Someone being out there - you - would help discourage that sort of thing.  No one knows how much is myth and legend, and how much is fact. That is one story.  Another is that the Pawnee ambushed a wagon train full of gold and hid the gold on the property.  The wagon train was supposed to be going from New Mexico to Independence, Missouri.  Why a wagon train full of gold would be doing that, I have no idea. Or why Italian POWs would have gold in the first place, being prisoners, and bury it here and leave it when they went back to Italy, never to return."\par
"Well, that's interesting....I don't have a camper."\par
"I can get you one. Really. Don't look like that - the Lord has been blessing me financially and I would like to bless others. In this case, you. Tell you what - I will pay your expenses for a week while you sort things out.  Then the payoff from the colony should support you for a year."\par
"Well, thank you."\par
"My pleasure.  It's really nothing.  Maybe God will tell you what He wants done with the land."\par
"I don't have anti-venin, either."\par
"Well, stay out of high weeds and out of Snake Woods, and you'll be fine.  But there are no high weeds.  There are some very scattered, very determined trees and weeds that have managed to find a crack or dirt or something and have survived.  There is a lessson in that for all of us.  You'll see.  It's mostly exposed limestone.  There is the huge flat area where the POW camp used to be, and the piles of debris from when they demolished the camp.  In the area south of the farmhouse there are earth mounds that I figure were piled that way when people were hunting for treasure.  I think they used bulldozers.  Most of the dirt has blown away otherwise."\par
\par
It was quiet out there, with prairie wind the only noise.  Paul and Jeannie parked the camper  not too far from the farmhouse and the barn.  He startled a deer standing in front of the farmhouse. It disappeared behind the barn before he could get out of the truck.  Jeannie wanted the trailer moved five times, which Paul did without complaining.  She would get out and look around, and the camper needed to be a few feet this way, or face that way, but maybe better over here, facing another way, but then it was better over there, where they had had it.  Finally she was happy with the location.  Paul noted it was exactly where he had parked at first, give or take a foot or two.\par
Paul looked around.  To the east you could see the tops of some of the buildings in Nicholls above the horizon.  The flat area extended west from where the road ended, with a large pile of debris in the middle and another down at the west end.  To the north, south and west, past the flat area, grassy prairie hills rolled out of sight, long and low and flat.  There were few trees and there was more rock than dirt, in places all grey bedrock with the lone tree or weed here and there, just as Jake had said.  The only interruption was the huddled cluster of farm buildings.  They were grey and tiny under the huge sky.  Paul did not remember the sky being so big, but there it was, as if he had noticed it for the first time.  He felt very small. There were small clouds high in the huge sky.  They were tiny as they slowly moved to the northeast.  For a second it seemed as if the sky in the south was dark, but he looked again, and it was normal blue.  His eyes seemed to be playing tricks on him. Maybe there was a flock of birds down there?\par
Jeannie unpacked things from the trip and began to set up the trailer from the trip. Their own little nest: she hummed happily.  She was mainly concerned with the inside of the trailer, with dinner, with getting things just the way she wanted. She would have to go to the store in the morning for things forgotten.  She knew where Nicholls Grocery was, the only one in town.  And the clothing stores along Main, but she had not really been shopping. Yet. She made a mental note to find a shopping buddy.  She made lists like that in her mind.  Probably someone from church.  There was certainly no one out here.  Paul was not someone to go shopping with. \par
After unhooking the trailer from the truck, Paul moved boxes into the trailer for Jeannie. He then looked at the barn and the farmhouse. From a distance, neither was really usable, and he was not sure about stepping inside the farmhouse, which was long deserted.  Paul's eyes brightened at the idea of fixing them up.  \par
"Green Acres is the place to be..." Jeannie was singing.\par
"What?"\par
"That TV show.  This place reminds me of the TV show named "Green Acres."  \par
Well, Paul had never seen it and had no plans that way. He'd been in seminary.  Jeannie enjoyed some TV shows, which Paul supposed was ok if not overindulged in.  As for himself, he usually was doing other things and had never gotten involved in television shows.  Carpentry as therapy.  Paul loved using his hands, whether nailing, painting, sawing or sanding or anything else.  He had a few tools here, as he was still, at heart, a carpenter.  He had made repairs at the seminary while he had been there. There was nothing like sanding wood for thinking out theology.\par
An enormous old fallen oak lay in front of the farmhouse, on one side of what must have been the path up from what had been the drive to the front door.  A hole suggested where, long years ago, there must have been another tree, the stump long gone along with its every other trace. The wood was rotted, decayed, turning to sawdust.  He cautiously thumped a porch post on the house.   "Structure's firm," he said to himself. "No termites."  No glass in the windows - it was on the floor, inside, it must have fallen or broken years ago.  He bent down and tried to lift a porch plank, and it came right up. He broke it in his hands.  "Not surprising." At some point someone had come along and ripped up every board - they were all helter-skelter.   He carefully stepped into where the plank had been and looked inside the doorway. Old oak leaves from trees long dead and debris everywhere, a deep layer, up to the windows across from him. "Floor's gone," he thought,"Not going to try. There could be snakes under there, for all I know."  He pulled his one foot back at that.  There was a steep staircase up to the attic, but no way was he going to try it. It looked like someone had ripped up all the old walls, maybe the old treasure hunters.  There was certainly no place anything could be hidden: everything was exposed. Cobwebs caught the sunlight like a 'Do Not Enter' sign. There was no telling if there was a cellar there - he might step into there and never be able to get out. \par
He stepped back from the house.  At some point the roof had had a claim to the name, but there were huge holes now, and shafts of sunlight struck the old floor. \par
He looked at the fallen oak and caught his breath.  A branch had fallen long ago and opened up the trunk.  There, in the debris inside the trunk, was a large translucent rock. It was larger than his hand.\par
He stared at it for a minute.  He thought of the Phelps diamond.  Perhaps this was it, and someone had hidden it in this tree, only now to be discovered after many years?  His heart sank, because this would be a nuisance.  He wanted peace and quiet. If they let the diamond's existence be known, there would be treasure hunters galore all over the place. But he would have to tell Jake.\par
He found the barn and outbuildings in the same rotting condition.  The place had not been lived in for many years. These paintless buildings sighed in the wind but otherwise there was not much in the way of life, aside from one rabbit that hopped ahead into the barn.  He smiled and tried the door of the outhouse, but the handle came apart in his hand.   It looked ready to fall over. The trailer had a tank they could use until he could do something better.  He knew Jeannie well enough to know she would have plenty to say if he suggested using an outhouse all winter.  She liked her creature comforts. \par
There was no power, no well, no running water, no nothing.  He rubbed his hands. He had work to do.  He began planning his work, happily thinking about getting a power line run out here, drilling a well, building a small cabin, putting in a septic field, maybe an outbuilding or two. What would Jake like? He sighed contentedly and went to see if Jeannie was ready for him to do her bidding.  On the way he noticed the soil again, , or lack of it: they were practically on rock.  There were strange piles of dirt, like years before it had all been scraped up and left in large piles. Small trees had struggled to grow but had died - when he dug in one pile, it was more interwoven roots than soil.  That also stirred up the ants.  He'd had experiences with ants defending their homes before, and quickly stepped back before they found him.  The mounds It gave a weird feeling to the landscape. Jake would know what that was about.  But he might have to go with a lagoon, and if this was all this rocky, he might build elsewhere.  \par
"Peace and quiet, Jeannie," he said, entering the trailer. He would say nothing to Jeannie about the possible diamond. He would have to Jake first.\par
"Here," she said,"please put this over there."\par
"What? Over where?" He was baffled.\par
"Where it belongs. It's a comforter, and that is a bed. A woman would understand."\par
"Well, I am not a woman."\par
"No, definitely not.  I could have a conversation with a woman.  My dear,  I mean..."\par
"Ahhh. I think you are hinting."\par
"Everything is fine, sweetie."\par
"I don't think it is.  I like the peace and quiet. But I know you."\par
"And I am going to go nuts without someone to talk to.  There is a very nice church here in Nicholls that I hope has a decent women's Bible study."\par
"Then I think we need to work out what we are doing.  I really need to take some time to hear the Lord.  That is why we are here. Here to hear."\par
"Well, I hear the Lord mostly through His Word in community. Through other people. Usually women. Often from the preacher, and there is that Jake Profim here. I believe you know him - he being the pastor and you and he talking and all.  I've heard of him for years.  A wonder that we will be at his church!"\par
"Well, yes.  And this is his land.  It would be terrible to not attend his church.  He is taking care of us, you know. I met with him."\par
"Yes. I do know."  She left it like that.   He spent a while helping her put "this" "there", like a young married couple learning each other's ways. Or like a couple whose kids were grown and were finally at leisure, with time to discover each other.  Seminary had taken a lot of long hours and Jeannie had worked.  They had had somewhat separate lives for the last three years.  It was time to get to know each other again.  He had hoped to do that as pastor of a settlement, he remembered with a short, swift pang.  But trust God and move on, he told himself again. \par
"It's been a long time since we've had a decent vacation." She snuggled in beside him on the small couch, barely big enough for one. \par
"Yep," he said, and smiled. "I am looking forward to some prayer time, Bible study and quiet before the Lord."\par
"Dear, too much of that alone time and I will go crazy. I want some Paul time, and people time. And God time of course, spending time before my Father in heaven. But a balance with people besides us."\par
"Yep.  I also like to keep my hands busy. I'll unhitch the trailer before bed."\par
"Dear, you did that already."\par
"I guess I have a lot on my mind.  I'm thinking about building something."\par
She put her head on his shoulder. At least they had a few days together before he started a project. \par
"Supper's on the table." \par
"I'll say grace," Paul said. He bowed his head.  There was something there that should not be, something seriously wrong.  It was hard to say grace. "Get out of here in the Name of Jesus," he said, and the feeling left.  He then said grace.\par
"I've felt the presence of something unholy a few times," Jeannie said,"Like something does not like us being here."\par
"I don't go demon-chasing.  If they show up, we will deal with them."  He did not mention the shadow he had seen to the south, whatever that was. "It seems to be gone now, anyway. Tell you what, let's sing 'A Mighty Fortress is Our God.'  We need to focus on Him, not on anything else."  And they sang it at the top of their lungs.  How good it was to worship the Lord!  \par
\par
\line  \par
The next morning Jeannie got dressed to go into town to do some shopping for a few things that would help out life in the trailer, just a couple of things. While she was finishing up getting ready she heard the sound of a large truck and a clattering sound.  She looked out a window, and there was Paul.  He had obviously gone to town, bought lumber, built forms, hired a concrete truck and was now in the middle of pouring a slab.  A middle-aged man was there, too, helping him.  Maybe a retired-type, still vigorous, with a salt and pepper mustache and glasses under a MARINES ball cap. His t-shirt was sleeveless and it was clear he kept in shape from the hard muscles on his arms. \par
"What on earth," she said to Paul. He turned and smiled.\par
"Need to do this before the weather turns. We can pull the trailer up on it to keep out of the mud this winter. I cleared it with Jake."\par
"Paul, you want to winter here in a trailer?" But before she got the words out, Jake waved.  He was standing there, watching the pour.  He came over and shook hands.\par
"Paul suggested we get an electric line out here, and build a cabin, and drill a well, and put a septic tank and a lagoon so that you will be comfortable. I am paying for it - he showed me the plan he sketched this morning - it's small and will take him a month or so to build, but it will be a lot nicer than a trailer in the winter.  You are planning to stay, if there is a decent little house to stay in, I hope?"\par
"Well, yes. I mean,  well, yes.  I thought he was going to pray and study the Bible and sit quietly, even though that is not him, not really. He is very active, you know."\par
"He loves to keep busy with his hands. You should have power out here next week - the electric cooperative is happy to bring power out here, well, since I am paying most of it, and there isn't much of that sort of work, so it is keeping their crews busy.  But it has to come over from Nicholls."\par
"Oh, Jeannie, this is Sam. Sam, my wife, Mrs. de le Grande."\par
"It is nice to meet you, Sam.  Are you of the Epper Church?"\par
"Pleasure, Ma'am.  And yes, I am. Pastor Profim asked me to help Mr. de le Grande.  Sam Chips. "\par
"Well, let's get back to work," Paul said.  And they did.\par
After the slab was finished and Jake and the mixers were all gone, Paul pointed to the wood scattered over the face of the ground.\par
"Do you know anything about why there is all that stuff all over the place?"\par
"Well, yes.  I thought you knew.  There was a tornado that came through here two years ago in the  spring.  It was right after Pastor Profim\cf1\f1  \cf0\f0 obtained the property - the Muellers, who own this whole half of the county, liked his book and sold forty acres to him for $1.00, out of the blue, entirely unexpected.  No one had heard from them for fifty years or more, and no one really knew the family still existed.  But they have some people still alive, up in Minnesota. They are Catholic, not Epper, but they looked kindly on our pastor's book, which seems to be doing well in some circles."\par
"So he doesn't own the whole half of the county?  I think he said something about forty acres."\par
"It's about forty acres.  Anyway he owns this flat area, where the POW camp was during World War 2, and he has easements to it."\par
"But what is the wood from?"\par
"The tornado.  That was a shock."\par
"How so?"\par
"Well, the Benedictines had used the few servicable buildings that had been left standing. Most of the buildings were bulldozed into piles.  So we - not Pastor as much as some of the people from the Epper church  - got all excited about the possibilities of those buildings. A lot of us think Jake Profim has enormous potential, and so does this land.  We could have an Epper settlement here.  We could put in an airstrip and train missionary pilots.  We could build a big publishing house to publish his books.  We could do retreats, maybe a school or a hospital, all using those buildings.  We were infected, unfortunately, with a sense of our own greatness and destiny in that."\par
"How so?"\par
"Because we got really excited and carried away.  We were thinking things like we were going to do great things, with the assistance of God.  We would be known all over the world for our piety and the power of our ministry.  We would be materially wealthy.  There were twenty or so of us - still are - who really got carried away.  We thought of all sorts of things and the church in generally thought we had gone off the deep end.  We had. Pastor never agreed to any of it and said we really should wait until God made it clear as to what He wanted done.\par
"Anyway...When Jake took possession all twenty or so of us silly people came out here and did a prayer walk, claiming possession of the buildings in the Name of Jesus.  Some of the people who were camping out here - they are gone, now, as you can see - joined in, because they had 'caught the vision'.  Afterwards we realized we had no clear idea of what the vision was.  It was certainly not backed by Pastor or the church or anyone. It was our own silly conceit.  Because we had not even finished the prayer walk before a storm came up, even while we were praying in tongues  - I guess it is safe to tell you that - and casting out demons left and right and up and down and binding principalities and powers and prophesying and casting vision and everything, that storm came up, and there was a twister in it, and that twister touched down about a mile southwest of where we are standing.  That twister made a beeline for the buildings. We commanded it in the Name of Jesus to stop but it just kept coming. It took out all the buldings standing, but it did not hurt the campers or the old farm buildings - the ones you can see over there - and kept going for another hundred feet or so, and then lifted and was no more.  But then there was a blinding hard rain and lightning and thunder, and afterwards there was not one wall, door or window in place from those old buildings.  They had been on cinder blocks, no proper foundation, and dynamite could not have done a better job.  We were devastated.  What happened to our vision?"\par
"We asked Pastor.  He said it was OUR vision.  He had told us to wait on the Lord, but we got carrried away.  No one was hurt, but it was a lesson in eating humble pie, that is for sure.  We've cleaned most of it up but we could use a bulldozer on the rest, what with kids being around here now."\par
"Kids?"\par
"Well, the Profim childen. And if they are here, there will be others.  You are right, we should not leave it so sloppy.  We have been hesitant to do anything out here, anything at all, after that twister."\par
"I can see why."\par
"There is also the old quarry at the west end of this flat area - that has been a dumping ground for years: furniture, old tires, washers and driers, cars, clothes, whatever.  It's got an oil slick on the water, so there are no mosquitos, but we should, someday, clean that out as well.  But you can't do everything.  I just thought I should mention it, seeing as you will be out here.  And you know about Snake Woods?"\par
Paul said he had. \par
"Well, back to the story: we were impressed by Jeremiah 13:16: \i Give the Lord the Glory before He causes darkness, and before your feet stumble on the mountains in the twilight. \i0 We were giving ourselves the glory.  Now we give God the glory and thank Him for taking out those buildings.  I shudder to think what we would have done. We can only see it as His good hand and His divine providence, His lovingkindness and mercy.  God must have another plan for the place."\par
"I have no idea what it is.  Pastor is talking about raising horses out here, as a personal retreat. I don't see any reason to do any more.  If God does something, I am sure He will let us know when He pleases.  He often does things in unexpected ways, or in an unexpected direction.  His thoughts and ways are above ours, so much so that we have but a glimmer of His wisdom."\par
"Yes.  We stumbled in a darkness of our own making.  We got ahead of God.  Since then we are trying to walk behind Him, to follow Him, and also to walk beside Him as He moves us. We also took His Name in vain, because He had other ideas: it is folly to use His Name to stop a tornado that He caused."\par
"Are you sure it was not some sort of satanic opposition to the ministry here?"\par
"Yes, actually, we are.  Pastor said those buildings were barely useable - one of the reasons the Benedictines had abandoned the place was because the repair costs would have exceeded the value of the buildings.  He was considering tearing them down, but he didn't want to upset us.  They were temporary structures built in a hurry during World War II and they really hadn't been kept up much since.   The property is worth more without them.  And someone went through them and tore out all the wiring and plumbing.  Copper thieves, I guess."\par
"That must have been some disappointment."\par
"It was.  But I think we learrned our lesson on that one.  I hope so."\par
"I hope I learn my lesson everytime I see what I think is a setback.  I find what you are saying encouraging.  I just started a pastorate at a settlement that dissolved the second Lord's Day I was there.  I am still searching for the lesson for me from that one.  I know God is faithful. Pastor and I have been discussing it.  I'm out here to figure out what God wants me to do next."\par
"And we want to figure out what He wants to do with the land.  But then it may be a long time before He tells us."\par
"He speaks when He speaks.  Presumption is always a danger.  But then so is being stiff necked. If you ever master hearing Him clearly, let me know."\par
"Will do."\cf1\i  \i0  \cf0\par
Jeannie thought that was a whole lot better than trying to live all winter in a trailer, which she was working up to present to Paul.  Sometimes, she knew, it would take some effort, and she was still marshalling her arguments. But now there was no need. She'd planned to work on getting a house or apartment or something in town.  You know, with people around. But she knew when to just let Paul be Paul.  \par
"I need to show you something," Paul told Jake quietly, when no one was around.\par
Jake stared at the diamond - he said it looked exactly like an uncut diamond - for a minute.\par
"Now that is a temptation."  He took his knife and carefully removed it from the trunk, hefted it in his hand.  They looked at the way the light came through it.\par
"You are right about the treasure hunters swarming the place if they find out about it. And I don't know who the rightful owners are. I mean, if this is the famous Phelps diamond, it is unclear to me who owns it, if anyone.  It would touch off a courtcase.  Nothing I want to be involved in. It has been hidden this long, so let it be hidden.  And we don't really know if it is that diamond or just a pretty piece of glass some joker put out here."\par
"It's your land."\par
"So I could be the owner. And I say, let it stay hidden.  I don't know what to do with it. It would cost me my little retreat out here and you your peace of mind."\par
With that they went to the old outhouse. Down the hole Jake dropped the stone, whatever it was, and they dropped in various loose pieces of wood on top of it.  With that, they both put the diamond, and the treasure, out of their minds. Earthly treasure and riches were simply something that had no hold on either of their minds. \par
So they got their cabin.  Paul put up a thirty by fifty cabin in a month, working sixteen hour days six days a week. The weather was favorable mostly, and when it wasn't, he did work that would need to be done eventually.  Jeannie made friends in her Bible study, her prayer group, and in town in general.  What with being an ordained pastor's wife, she shared the role of a \i matushka\i0  with Jake's wife.  There was always more than enough to do in that role, and she was careful to be very deferential, as she had no desire to upstage Betsy.  But Betsy had small children and was recovering from a difficult childbirth and an ill infant: she was more than glad for someone else to do all the things a \i matushka\i0  typically did: organize the women's ministry, sanctuary decorations, seeing to the washing and cleaning of everything in the sanctuary, visiting the sick, organizing meals, on and on.  Jeannie had expected this as \i matushka\i0  in a settlement, but this was a church in a town, not a settlement, and so there were all these others: not everyone attended church. It was like the close community of a settlement, but there were lots of other people who were not Eppers.  She had grown up on a settlement, but she found herself, to her surprise, preferring a settlement in a town.  And so there was Local Outreach: the food pantry, gifts to the sick, etc., etc..  Jeannie was pleasantly busy as the cabin went up and through the following months. Paul heard about all this, and more.  He was pleased: she was happy, and that meant a lot to him.\par
Something was said at church, and furniture arrived to fill every room, all for free. Paul kept it to himself that he was a little disappointed, as he had hoped to build it all, but there it was. Jeannie was astounded.  They moved in on December 23.  Some miles north Paul found a cedar they could use as a Christmas tree, and there they were, all moved in until candidating would begin. And Paul did some odd carpentry jobs around town after that: there was food on the table and a better Christmas than they would have imagined a month earlier, a feast celebrated with a few people who would have had nowhere else to go.\par
Paul worked on a letter to send in answer to candidating inquiries.  As January winds and snow came he was restless.  He wanted to be working with his hands.  He whittled toys for children and small boxes.  He rebuilt the cabinet doors and  and then the doors and rehung them, more satisfied with them after that.\par
Sometimes he thought about torching the old farmhouse and barn, because they were safety hazards, but what if that uncovered more treasure, or something they thought was treasure? He would prefer to build a fence around them and leave them alone.  He was not tempted to eat the fruit of that particular tree. Too bad Adam had not built a fence around one tree in the Garden, but instead he had eaten of it. He kept this to himself, because he was not sure enough of Jeannie: she thought differently about things than he did, and if she knew and it tempted her to sell the diamond, perhaps he could be worn down.  So he was silent about it.  A secret is a secret only when you tell as few people as possible. He told himself that he was not tempted, but sometimes he would dream about retrieving the stone, going into town and selling it for a fortune.  He would be rich and famous.  But he was interested in neither of those things.  And he was dismayed, sometimes, that he dreamed about it. It had too much of a hold on his mind if he was dreaming about it. \par
His hands were longing for all-day tool use, his shoulders wanted to carry lumber, and his arms ached for lifting wood.  He loved to work.  He rebuilt the lunch bar at the diner, rehung doors around town and put in a few inside walls while he was idle.  \par
"I haven't done you rightly, yet, in your kindness to me," he told Jake at church. "I'm thinking of building you something else.  How about a shop or a storage building?"\par
"Well, my book sales have been going well. Perhaps I told you I have the funds to build a nice stable.  In fact, it has been on my mind as a recreation - raising horses in my own stable.  I would like a 20 horse stable.  Perhaps the Lord is leading us in a direction of horse therapy someday.  Or a retreat for the troubled.  In fact, I have a set of plans that I would love to have built.  I will bring them over later in the week. "\par
He did, and as the weather cleared, wood arrived and a foundation was poured.  Lumber, nails, and as it warmed, paint, sand paper, varnish, shingles.  When he could, Jake would come and look at his stable and get a huge grin. It was a delight to his eye, a real pleasure, a dream come true, and he imagined raising horses was a quiet country occupation, one that perhaps he could retire to someday.  He said horses were calming to the soul, easier to care for than the souls of men who often seem troubled with intractable problems.  Jake felt like being a pastor was a step to something else, somethiing not yet revealed,  and he was hoping it involved raising horses someday.   Maybe using horses in rehabilitation?  Jake turned one room of the cabin into a library away from home, where he could write, and he would, indeed, write there: books, sermons, articles, away from the phone, away from the doorbell, with Jeannie and Paul understanding that when he shut the door, he really wanted to be alone.\par
Paul was pleased.  He had mastered, finally, mortise and tenon joints, and concealed joints of every kind. The stable was like a huge piece of furniture.  Paul could work quickly and well, and there was nothing ostentatious about the stable.  He was very pleased that Jake had not noticed how well it was constructed - Paul would rather Jake thought about its purpose than that anything he had down would draw attention to the details that he himself was concerned with.   He was a master carpenter, and this was of course a masterpiece, but it was solely to the glory of God, not in any way to glorify himself, and to the service of others in that glory. Jake had no idea of how well it was built, and Paul would never tell anyone. That was between himself and God. He thanked God for those skills, but they were on loan from God and not his own. He was careful not to credit himself with how beautiful the stable was. Only God needed to know that, and He did.  God also knew the flaws, of which there were a few, but those were there to keep Paul humble, so he accepted his own limits. \par
Jake would pick up the mail at the post office, if Jeannie had not done it, and bring it out and then wander around, looking at the land. Jeannie noticed that sometimes he would be frowning, or tense, on arrival, but humming when he left.  Paul spent most of his time on the stable.  It was rare he needed or asked for help, such as when he put up the trusses for the stable roof.  Then he would get a couple of guys from the lumber yard, who also went to the Nicholls church, but he insisted on carrying everything, doing all the final alignment, driving all the nails.  It really was his stable. Well, no, it was God's. And Jake's.  Paul did not own it. He loved it, perhaps too much.  Then he would give it back to God.  And he never boasted about how well it was built. \par
During an April thunderstorm Paul was hanging a stall door when Jake dripped his way into the stable and then approached Paul, carefully holding out the dry letter from the seminary's placement office that he had held under his raincoat. Paul carefully put his level down and quickly looked at the shims under and around the door, and then approached Jake. He knew what the envelope contained was from the return address, and it was far too thin for good news. "In the will of God," he said to himself. Jake's face said he knew it, too.\par
 He carefully and slowly opened the letter in the way he did everything.   It seemed that the 1968 class was the largest class ever, and unfortunately there were relatively few openings for pastors.  They were working on placing the students who were the most promising first, and it was doubtful that students in the bottom half of the class would be placed at all.  They regretted to inform him that they could do nothing for former students at this time and could not offer much hope in that direction.  As Epper bishops, settlements, colonies and churches sought pastors solely through the seminary's placement office, when looking for new pastors,  it appeared that door was closed. He relayed the news to Jake.\par
"I am sorry. I had a feeling it would go that way, but I was hoping it would go better than that."  Paul had met with the local bishop, who had said he was not expecting to fill any pulpits for years to come.  It was good, the bishop had said, that Paul had his carpentry skills. Paul was not one to dwell on disappointment or even think much about it.  Typically he simply moved on to the next thing in a few minutes or hours. \par
"Thank you,", Paul blew his nose long and loud, looked at his handkerchief, shrugged and carefully folded it and put it away."  I've been keeping up with the news.  The times seem to be changing, and that has affected us Eppers.  We are not so insulated from the world in our little settlements and colonies.  Many have closed as people have, it seems, gotten tired of living in little villages in the middle of nowhere.  The culture is pulling them into the cities.  Some no longer call themselves Eppers who once did.  It is not as though we have not felt the loss of numbers before, but somehow we survive. And you know that.  Well, the Lord gives and the Lord takes; blessed be the name of the Lord. Thank you for bringing me the letter." And he placidly went back to hanging the door.\par
Jake watched him for a minute."There is one more thing.  My wife and kids want two weeks out here, since we own it, and have not really spent any time.  That means we want the cabin for those two weeks. No, we are not turning you out - you can come back.  We will need house sitters for our house in Nicholls, so we will swap  for now, for those two weeks, if you don't mind. That will happen the last week of May and the first week of June, right after school is out."\par
"Ok, you know my wife. She will be thrilled to be in town," Paul said and then,"Is that it?"  and after a silence, he went back to hanging the door.\par
But Jake did not go away.  He stood there, looking at Paul for a minute. Paul put down his tools again and looked at his friend.  He blew his nose again, even louder than last time.  He would have to get another handkerchief.\par
Jake coughed slightly. "I hesitate to say it, but I thought you should know. You know my latest book?"\par
"Yes, I have read it. Excellent. You have a gift. Jeannie is using it as a devotional now. I am on my second reading. Very moving and helpful."\par
"Thank you." Jake was silent for a minute before saying, "It is under review by the Committee on Doctrinal Purity."\par
"I am sorry to hear that. Very much so.  Have they ever cleared anyone?"\par
"A few.  Most people, though, once it gets that far, are removed from the ministry. It may happen to me."\par
"Well, God will take care of you."  Paul looked around for another handkerchief. There was none, so out came the one. He did his best.\par
"And I am taking care of you.  I feel responsible here. And I understand the CDP and I do not wish them ill will.  The argument is that we are losing people because we have drifted away from the pure faith, from the apostolic deposit.  Several of our largest churches have become Reformed. One became Lutheran.  And others have left us.  It seems that happens with some of the churches in the cities.  Without the settlement model we lose our distinctives, one of which is of course close community.  We must return to our foundations to grow.  There is merit in what the CDP is doing, although I think there methods could draw criticism."\par
"Well, don't feel responsible.  Not to insult you at all, but you are His means at present, and He has many means."\par
"Responsible, anyway, to tell you.  You may get in a conflict of interest."\par
"Jake, I think you are solid in your faith. I have no problems at all with you on anything, not even on this whole healing kerfluffle."\par
"Keflufffe? You, an ordained pastor, say that moving against our denomination's beliefs is merely a kerfuffle?" Jake said that with amusement, but there was also a little reserve. He had not sounded Paul out on this subject. \par
"Let me put it to you this way, friend, and that is that what God says outweighs what the archbishop and the college of elders say.  They have been wrong before, and they may be wrong again.  And I will tell you that I think the CDP should not have freedom across dioceses and presbyteries - they should only deal with cases brought to them from so called lower courts, and there should not be what is turning into a permanent, for lack of a better term, inquisition.  Dijkstra last year, fully orthodox, fine, upstanding pastor, admired by his congregation, removed because of what?"\par
"He said these charismatic phenomenae are not necessarily heretical, that God can move through them.  He backed off somewhay, you know. Claims they are fully in line with historical Christianity."\par
"Not exactly backing off.  And he was removed.  I read the charge.  And where does that land you, and me? I believe healing is for today. I know you do. I am not at risk because they cannot remove me from a church.  It is not right to cower down. And you are, as you know, if I may be so bold, the golden boy of the denomination.  I think you could sway things.  Everyone knows your name.  Let the wind of the Holy Spirit blow through this stagnant old church of ours. Stiff-necked Pharasaism is not restricted to non-Eppers. There, I said it.  If I had a church they would try me. But I do not have one. I have crossed the line, now, I suppose.  I am very grateful for all you have done.  Allow me to express my loyalty to you, over and against the CDP.  Not brave words, because I have nothing to lose here."\par
"Yes, friend, I suppose you have crossed the line.  And loyalty to anyone except to Christ is dangerous, especially to me, the worst of sinners.  I would caution you to not view me uncritically."\par
"And I will tell you something: I do not think I am the only one with eyes and ears to see what God is doing.  I think many would join us."\par
"Us, huh.  Well, allow me to be guarded.  But it could also lead to a rupture. Eppers do not go into schism."\par
"If they push this business of strict doctrinal conformity beyond all reasonable bounds, I think there will be one.  It is not right to violate men's conscience in the name of unity and demand conformity.  That is an abuse of power.  That is not the Epper way.  The surrender of conscience to anyone but Christ goes against our teaching.  I am very concerned about some of what I have been reading.  Very concerned.  But who am I? A carpenter."\par
"We have always, always sought peace. I think there is truth in what you say.  Let me change the subject.  And one carpenter saved the world, if yoyou will remember. What do you want to do after you finish this stable?"\par
"I am thinking a barn. Horses need hay, and you do not want to have the hay in the same building.  It is a fire hazard."\par
"Well, someone needs to be here to watch all these nice buildings, at the very least. You are going to build a whole horse ranch here, I suppose?"\par
"Not a city. I like my privacy." Now Paul hesitated.\par
"This is going to sound weird, but I think I belong out here, building things, building things for you."\par
"Well, you are a very good carpenter, but I think you are going to run out of projects. I can't imagine ever needing any more than what you have in mind. But....I don't know. It is strange, it makes no sense, but it sounds right.  You can stay here as long as God calls you here.  I think God has plans for this place.  Ok, I guess I sound charismatic.  Not some pie-in-the-sky New Jerusalem; maybe just a retreat house for me.  But I don't want to be selfish. Perhaps others. A refuge from the world for some for a time.  But, Paul, you seem to be in a cleft in the rock. I am a little concerned there."\par
"Oh?"\par
"Moses was in a cleft in a rock.  But then so was Jeremiah's linen garment.  And the people in Isaiah 2 and i Revelations 6 hid from the Lord in the clefts of the cliff.  I want to be sure that you are here for the Lord and are not rotting, just because you think you are no good to anyone as a leader."\par
"Well, thank you for that.  I think, though, that there is some of both. There is the drawing close to God and the rotting away of human ambition, if it comes to that.  But I see growth in myself here."\par
"I do, too.  I don't think you are called to a traditional Epper pastorate.  God has something else for you, but I don't know what it is. He will make it clear in His time, I am sure. And I prefer someone be out here to watch the land, rather than keeping it vacant." \par
"Sounds good to me! The staying here part, I mean.  There is something wonderful about spending time out here alone.  Jeannie does not see it that way. Town is nearby and she has been making friends, so it works.  I feel refreshed, you know. I don't mind at all being out here."\par
"Except for those two weeks coming up. The kids are looking forward to it.  \par
"Well, you better keep them away from the old farm buildings.  They are dangerous."\par
"Yes. When you have time, you can torch them or tear them down, or tear them down and then torch them. Or just tear them down. I don't really care.  I will tell the kids to stay out. They mind, and we watch."\par
"There's something else, though, that has been on my mind. People talk about treasure out here.   People seek treasure, people seek to build a heaven on earth, a paradise. This of course cannot be done.  But why? Is God opposed to our living the best life possible? What social system or political organization are Christians called to? Separatism? Integration in the city? We Eppers have had both.  I suppose Nicholls was built as a sort of happy place for Marines.  We build settlements to worship God freely.  But what is best: the town system or the settlement?  A separate system that welcomes outsiders? A separate system that demands those who join conform to the culture? A distinct culture within a larger culture, or an assimilated culture that seeks to keep its integrity nonetheless? What is the treasure we seek?\par
The church is that society, not yet perfected but present, visible and invisible. How is it best expressed?  Have you thought about writing something on those lines?"\par
"Not really.  Frankly I am not all that interested in social structures as much as I am in individual people coming to Christ.  I'm thinking you are hinting that God is going to do more with my little patch of land than a horse ranch, but I really don't think so." He paused.\par
"Eden of course was the prototype - the original 'city of God', the ideal situation. We were, I think, supposed to build settlements - small Edens - all across the planet, all small cities of God. But then came the Fall, and the loss of paradise.  Yet we see Cain building a city, Enoch, just about first thing.  Man is a social animal and cannot be separated from his society. Yet society is a sum of the people in it - I don't like that word, and perhaps aggregate would be better, and the whole, via synergy, is bigger than the parts - the weak point in the system being the individual.  Can water flow upstream? Can the society be better morally than its components? I think the questions you are asking are good, don't get me wrong. It's just I find myself in an existing situation, the Epper Church, in an existing society, Nicholls, and that neither are really open to change.  Possibly some day, but the care and cure of souls is my concern more than their social structure."\par
"As for this land - it seems to be worthless.  Not enough dirt for farming, not enough grass for cattle.  I think they poisoned the soil around the flat area - I am guessing this is where the old POW camp was, and they cleared all the brush around it down to rock.  It seems like much of the soil around it blew away long ago.  The Muellers gave up on it nearly a century ago, if not a little more, and no one else has tried.  The kingdom of God is the treasure, if there is any, and this is the not the only place it is.  There is really nothing special about this place.  Some talk about me being a bishop someday, and there has been foolish speculation about my being an archbishop eventually, which of course we have never had.  No, I find pastoring a challenge and I take refuge in the solitude here, the peace and the quiet.  The land has that.  But reorganizing society? I think that is beyond you or me, my friend."\par
They talked a few minutes longer, and Paul returned to the stall door when Jake was gone. There was his mess of a handkerchief.  He picked it up by a corner, but it was perfectly dry. His nose was no longer dripping, either.  That gave him something to think about as he propped the door exactly and lined it up, exactly level, so it would swing level and true and easily. Carpentry was art and praise to God.\par
On three fine June days, the temperatures in the seventies, the wind just right, soft and gentle, the sunshine mild, the ranchers of and townspeople of the Nicholls church staged a barn raising. Their whole families came out and camped and picnicked. There was a mountain of food and there were games - sober, Epper games, but games nonetheless, despite the cautions against frivolity and the sombre, solemn, sober manner of play, to demonstrate they were about God's business and NOT there for pleasure, or, God forbid, fun, and foot races, arm-wrestling and tug-of-war, and singing in the evening around the campfire. There was a funereal atmosphere and some concern that they were enjoying it too much.   The old oak tree disappeared into the fire, what wood of it was good.  \par
The men brought their own firewood. "There is a tree-line south of  here, if you go south about a mile, you can see the tops of the trees," Paul pointed out. "Oh, no. That is Snake Wood," he was told. "Don't go near it.  There is a kind of especially dangerous rattlesnake there and in the tall grass near it. People have talked about Snake Woods on the Mueller land since before I was born." Everyone else agreed. There were stories of people who approached the Wood and had died, right there on the spot, and people were afraid to retrieve the body. It had happened several times, long ago. And recently, a teenager had snuck onto the property and had been bitten and died.   \par
"Any time since?"\par
"No. The land has been deserted, except during the treasure seeking days.  Sometimes a teenager will come out here on a dare.  Some have died doing so.  That stops it for a few years, then someone else."\par
"What is that all about?  I've heard a little about the Mueller treasure.  Is it legend, do you think"\par
"There is supposed to be treasure buried out here. That is the rumor.  People have looked but never found anything.  They dug up all the topsoil looking."\par
"And some of them died trying to approach Snake Wood."\par
"Yep."\par
"Do tell."\par
"Some people say it was from a wagon train coming up from New Mexico."\par
"Other people say it was from bank robberies.  The wagons came here, and the Mueller men ran off after hiding it.  Or what a gang of bank-robbers hid during the Civil War."\par
"Why would they do that?"\par
"That's the story.  Maybe the Muellers were in on it, this being their land.  I guess maybe the law was after them."\par
"They were supposed to be guarding the treasure. It didn't work out that way."\par
"Just a story."\par
"But there were Muellers. This was their land, and their farm.  They abandoned it in the 1880s and moved far away. "\par
"How come no one has ever settled it?"\par
"The snakes, I guess. And it is really rocky." He slapped his foot against the rocky ground to emphasize it. "Less than two inches of dirt, if any, most places, and a lot of it has blown away."\par
Matt Pfingster, with land north and east of Nicholls, was leading the barn raising when it was clear Paul had never done it before.  Paul simply wanted to work, not lead.  There were some knowing looks: Jake had talked him into leading a men's Bible study, him being a pastor, but the numbers had dwindled until Paul was sitting by himself in the room on Sunday mornings, happily and carefully copying the Greek text by hand like a scribe in the days before printing.  He had retreated into himself as part of his time out on the land, and Jake didn't know quite what to do.  It was clear to Jake his future would not be in being a pastor. \par
Paul had put a woven wire fence up, half-encircling the old barn and farmhouse.  Jake realized he had never really looked at either.  He walked around the end of the fence on the sparse, short grass that had found scarce holes in the rock, and came up to the porch of the farmhouse.\par
He froze.  There was a rattling sound: rattle snakes. They were inside, under the leaves and debris he could see from the doorway.  Were they the really lethal ones everyone was afraid of, or a common rattler?  He decided it didn't matter; he didn't want either to strike.   He backed off and looked at the barn but did not enter it.  He thought it was unwise to enter. Then there was the old chickencoop, and some other buildings whose purpose he could only guess at what they once were.  Here the grass was a little thicker, and he decided not to go poking any more.\par
Jake told Paul about this.  "They aren't bothering us, and I haven't seen any mice, so I guess they are taking care of the problem," he replied. "Let's leave them alone."  Paul completed the wire fence around the old buildings and let them be. \par
Paul turned his attention to spreading the dirt out from the closest pile, enough that it would be good and thick enough on the ground for a medium-sized garden.  He planted a vegetable garden, but the main thing he seemed to grow was deer.  Animals would come in the night and eat what he had planted.  He fenced the garden and they still got in. \par
\par
He dug a pond and with the rock he had quarried he built a wall around his garden, and that kept the animals out. As the years passed he grew enough to sell a little and live on what he sold to the Nicholls Market.  He bought chickens, raised a few pigs, got a cow, but no horses - he felt they were a luxury, as he didn't do that much plowing.  He had a small tiller and that was enough for his needs.   Jeannie got herself involved in town, in women's societies, clubs, the church Women's Group, and he kept himself busy building, planting, growing, weeding. He was always on the watch for deer and snakes.  He could count on shooting a deer a year for the first four years, but after that they avoided the area.  He went hunting further away.\par
Early one September day in his hunting he hiked south, and the line of trees rose before him as he walked.  He found the prairie ended suddenly: the short grass and rock surface dropped away steeply, and as it went down the grass became longer and even lush, down to where there were outlier trees and then thick trees, a vine-laden dense wildwood rising higher than the land to the north, so thick he could not see more than a few feet into it.  Despite the warnings he had received, something drew him to it.  He made a cautious descent to where the grass was thick, rising to his knee, so thick he could no longer see dirt. He looked and listened for snakes.  He could see a few here and there in the tree branches, even in the nearest outlier, an oak. There were clouds of flies here and there  They were not moving.  Hearing nothing, he set his right foot into the tall grass. Immediately a snake struck his boot, and Paul pulled the boot back.  It had not penetrated, but it was still on his boot.\par
It was a rattlesnake about five feet long.  It loosened itself and without looking back it slid back into the tall grass. He stared at it until he could see it no more.\par
"Maybe," said Paul, backing out, "Maybe whoever it was scraped all the dirt away just to keep the snakes out of where people were."\par
At the top of the rise his heart was still pounding even though it had not been very far.  He looked to his left, and far away he could see a greenish area.  Curious, he found the land lowering until he came to a large flat area of rock with shallow, algae-covered water.  The mosquitoes were humming, and he retreated, slapping as he went.  More alarming were the horseflies, one of which pursued him for a quarter mile as he made his way westward.  He continued on to where the woods ended with a shallow, treeless gully that rose westward. This he crossed and found the south situation the same as the north, with the rocky soil being the worst right at the edge of the slope down into the woods, the grass lusher as it dropped, and the enormous trees.   He watched a flock of sparrows suddenly leave the canopy: perhaps the snakes were active.  He walked again toward the green area, but did not get too close.  Then he resumed his hunting, and the grass grew taller and more prairie-like as he moved away from the ravine, which he was sure was Snake Woods.  \par
\par
From that day he and Jeannie never set foot outside without heavy boots on and a staff to handle a snake with.  But they never saw one.  They seemed to be confined to the area around the old buildings and then down around Snake Woods.  Paul left the snakes alone, and they left him alone. "Fair is fair," he said.  He would warn visitors about the snakes, and as the years passed his warnings grew: "one drop of their venom and you are a goner. You fall over, dead." He supposed the people and animals had been bitten by aggressive snakes and their bones were still in there.  Sometimes people went up to near, but not too near, the woven wire fence around the old farm buildings and looked at the tall grass now in there - for a while Paul had dumped manure over the fence until he had better uses for it, and the grass in there was thick and green most of the time, as well as high, so that the buildings rose grey and ghostlike out of a threatening, forebidding sea of grass.  He intended to torch everything in there, someday, it was just he had other things more pressing. \par
In 1972 Jake moved his family into the cabin after Paul built one for himself and his wife. Paul's new  cabin was half house, half woodshop.  Jeannie and Betsy hit it off very well. \par
 Paul was happily tilling the garden one fine May day in 1976 when he looked up and there was Jeannie. Two men and a woman stood beside her, three small chldren with them.  He recognized Kitten from church.  The others looked dirty and unhappy.  He sighed and shut off his tiller.\par
"Paul, this is Isaac Bread and his wife and family. Anna, Paul, Paul, Anna. And Sarah and Gabriel and - "\par
"Micah," said the youngest, staring at him with big eyes, thumb in mouth.  \par
"You know Kitten. Jake sent them over.  Paul was a missionary pilot in Borneo. Until recently."\par
"And you are no longer welcome among them.  The CDP?"\par
Isaac nodded.  He looked discouraged and defeated.\par
"Well, we can put you up and feed you for the night-"\par
Jeannie interrupted, "No, Paul, you don't understand.  They have no place to go.  Jake has invited them to live here. He saw them at a conference he was at."\par
"Well," Paul said, after a pause,"It is his land." After another pause,"I'm sorry. What was I thinking? I sound so inhospitable."\par
"Yes you do," said Jeannie, but not in a condemning way. She could do that.\par
Paul looked back at the tiller longingly, unhappy at work interrupted, then shook Isaac's hand.  "Cheer up, old man," he said, "there is plenty of work to be done here. Work puts joy in the heart and pleases the Lord."\par
Jeannie said,"Yes, he said that. Paul loves to work. He actually said that. My Paul is the inarrnation of the Epper Work Ethic."\par
"Seriously?"\par
"Seriously."\par
Kitten said he, too, had work to do, back in town.  He said his goodbyes.\par
Paul returned to tilling and the others went back to their cabin together, the women talking of sleeping arrangements, showers, clothes, food.  They had one change of clothing.  They had had to leave most of their things in Borneo because it would be too expensive to bring them back. It would take six months or more for Isaac to regain a US pilot's license, and then he could find a job then, maybe. \par
Paul and Jeannie realized they were no longer alone on the property, as Jake often took his family with him when he went on the road and was gone more than he was here.  Jeannie was elated because there would be another woman to talk to. Paul was elated because he could build them a cabin. And there would be another pair of hands to do things. They ate a crowded lunch and then Jeannie took Isaac's wife and kids to town for clothes, after a shower and some baths. Paul reminded them to get sturdy boots.\par
That left the two men, silent, the new man staring at the other tilling. Paul sighed and shut off the tiller and came up to Isaac.\par
"Well, I hope you and - what was your wife's name?" Paul asked.\par
"Anna."\par
"I hope you are comfortable here.  How about if we build you a house?"\par
"Thanks, and Jake was going to ask you to. That would be fine.  I mean, fantastic."\par
"Do you have a good pair of boots?"\par
When the women returned they found Paul back at the tiller, and Isaac was following, dealing with large clods via a shovel, anything that had been missed.\par
When the tiller was off, at the sight of the women and children, Isaac told him, "You need to work manure in here, and some sand. It looks like fine soil, though."\par
"Yep."\par
"Daddy, Daddy! Look at my new clothes!" Sarah was held back from charging in them into the newly tilled garden.\par
"It looks nice."\par
"Your turn," said Anna,"You need some clothes. Here." She handed him a thick wad of cash. You and Paul go into town - Paul knows where everything is - and get yourself some clothing. I think you will need overalls. Look at what you have done to your slacks."\par
"And boots." Paul was not exactly thrilled about taking anyone clothes shopping, but it had to be done. Most of the tilling was done, anyway, and the tiller was not going anywhere. He sighed and took Isaac shopping.  There was no arguing with the women sometimes. \par
\par
The next day the Dunbars, Roy and Joyce, arrived. They arrived in two large  over the road trucks.\par
Paul and Isaac were in the garden, sowing seed, when the trucks arrived.  Like yesterday, there had been no word of their coming.  Paul started wondering about how he was supposed to get any peace and quiet.\par
By the time they reached the trucks, Jeannie was already there.  Roy got out first. He was a short and bald man that you expected would be smoking a cigar, only he wasn't, and he didn't. But something about him suggested that.  \par
"Is this Profim's property?"\par
"Yep."\par
"I'm looking for a fellow named, just a minute," he fished in his pocket, "Paul de le Grande. Do you know him?"\par
Paul raised his hand. "That's me," he said.\par
"I'm Roy Dunbar."\par
"Roy Dunbar? Are you the Roy Dunbar who runs \i the Epper Epistle?\par
\i0 "Well, I was.  I have been removed after the CDP had reviewed some of my editorials - it seems what I have to say is not doctrinally pure, and not only that, neither am I. The short of it is I am out, and Jake heard about it, and invited us here. It seems he needs someone to help get his books to market. I know people in the business, and grammar, and can edit and so forth."\par
A woman the same age got out of the cab of the other truck. Four kids of varying heights had arrived with them, and were now running around. They looked to be between ten and four. They met the Bread children and formed their own conversation.\par
"I'm Joyce Dunbar," Joyce said.  There were further introductions.\par
"You have two trailers of household goods?" Paul asked.\par
"No, none."\par
"What is in them, then?"\par
"Junk."\par
"Junk?"\par
"Junk. Joyce is a certifiable scrounge. A packrat extraordinaire.  We managed to leave home with little and arrive here with two large trucks full of -"\par
"Junk," Joyce finished, quite calmly.\par
"Yes. Junk. Machine parts, mainly.  Some lumber,  I think.  Junk. You wouldn't believe it if i told you."\par
"I find things. I keep them. People find use for them." She shrugged.\par
"They do.  It is amazing.  That is my Joyce."  \par
Paul said,"Do you have a rock pick in there?"\par
"I have a broken 1964 diesel rock pick in there, yes I do."\par
"How about an electric can opener?" This was Jeannie," and a sewing machine?"\par
"Both, but they both need a bit of work."\par
They converted the Hanger into temporary living quarters for the Dunbars, with most of their stuff under tarps there and the doors shut.  Half of the hanger was devoted to Joyce's "junk" which  she carefully arranged. Paul looked at it: most of it was broken mechanical equipment, radios, tvs, small appliances.  There was an enormous amount of cloth, the sort you make clothes out of, and canvas, the sort you make into sails or tents.  There was a good amount of sheet metal,enough for a small building.\par
"I had to leave most of it behind, what I had back then, in fact all of it," Joyce explained,"This just showed up coming here.  It it is free for the taking. Most if not all of it was given to me."\par
"Why did you bring it?"\par
"I thought it would be useful." \par
"What we need is a watchmaker, a fixer of small appliances."\par
"That's not me, I just find stuff."\par
\par
The next day Amram Boom and his family arrived.  He had been in an Epper settlement that had the head of the CDP in it, and now he was homeless.  He was a jovial soul nonetheless, under the Epper veneer of solemnity.  He brought Jochebed his wife, and his children Miriam and Moses and Aaron.  "God has a sense of humor, and so do I," he said. "When I met a Jochebed, I had to marry her. And then we had a daughter, and then two sons, and so here we are."\par
"No one can accuse you of not being Scriptural."\par
"I should hope not! But it happened, and here we are!" \par
"Ooooh," he said, when he saw the neat rows of junk. "Oooh," he said again.\par
"It's a real pile, huh?" Isaac asked him.\par
"No, an opportunity. You see, I fix things. Like clocks," he said, picking one up, "Like can openers," he said again, picking one up, "all manner of small appliances and small engines. Not cars, but other things, up to tractors."\par
It was not long after that that the Profims and the de Le Grande households both had fixed electrical can openers.  They found a use for the repaired rock pick and the repaired rock saw, as a quarry operation got under way. \par
 One day Paul looked up from his work.  In front of him was Arthur Cove, two years behind him at seminary.  While they had had no classes together, they knew each other. Arthur Cove had been well known as an up-and-coming pastor, full of promise, with his relationship with Christ known and respected.  The \i Epper Epistle\i0  had run more than one article on him, featuring him as "one of our brilliant young men God has called into the ministry." And he had led twenty young people on a mission trip into Malawi that had gone very well. Paul had looked forward to his sermons in chapel - at seminary everyone took a turn at the daily chapel service - and Arthur had been asked to fill in more than once when someone else had to give up a turn for various reasons. He was fluent in English, Koine, Dutch and Russian, his Hebrew was conversationally competent, and his Latin not bad, with a dictionary at his side. He could exegete a passage at the drop of a hat and made amazing connections that made you wonder why you had not seen it, it was so obvious.  Everyone had said he was a shoo-in for a plum pastorate. \par
 "Hello, Arthur," Paul said, stretching out his hand.  But Arthur stood tensely, his hands on his hips. \par
"Paul de le Grande," Arthur said, now shaking hands,"They told me you were here."\par
"Well, whoever they are, they were right. Here I am."\par
"I thought you got a pastorate."\par
"Well, yes. I did. But the colony disbanded."\par
"I am sorry to hear that."\par
"Thank you.  What brings you here?"\par
Paul was surprised that Arthur was almost at the point of tears. "The Committee on Doctrinal Purity found my theology too questionable in the area of charismata."\par
"That happens.  Do you mind telling me what, exactly?"\par
"I believe, with the historical Epper church, that God heals today. The Holy Spirit has not withdrawn the miraculous gifts. I would not recant.  So they threw me out."\par
"I see.  Many have walked that path."\par
"And they come here, to this place."\par
"Some have, yes.  It seems to be a refuge from the CDP."\par
I thought I would be a pastor. But here I am in this desolate place."\par
"It's not so desolate." Paul waved his hand around at the barren, rocky flat area they were beginning to call the Midbar, where nothing would grow, and the low treeless prairie without feature or break. "Well, maybe it is."\par
"I have nowhere else to go."\par
"That is the story of many."\par
"I feel like the waistband - the ezor - belt, kilt, underwear, whatever it was - in Jeremiah 7, that got stuck in a rock just to be ruined."\par
"You know, Jake Profim brought that passage to my attention years ago and I have thought about it a lot.  You can either rot in a hole and become perfectly worthless, or you can regard it as a cleft in the rock, and behold the glory of God go by. It is up to you."\par
"I hadn't thought of it that way."\par
"How long was Moses in the wilderness"\par
"Forty years."\par
"There you go."\par
"But I want God to use me \i now\i0 .  I have teaching gifts.  I can write."\par
"He is under absolutely no obligation to use you in any way that you desire.  That linen ezor was probably expensive.  If He is pleased to throw away a gift, so be it. And you don't know if your usefulness is at an end.  But as long as you insist on Him using you now, rather than deferring to Him, He cannot use you.  We will not use you - there is a danger there, a root of bitterness that must be removed before you can be of use."\par
"You won't let me teach or preach?"\par
"Not until I see change in you."\par
Arthur looked even unhappier. "Perhaps there is a settlement  where-'\par
"No. I think God has brought you here, now, to bring this to light.  There is a danger when we so identify with our office or ministry that we think of ourselves as that thing.  First is Christ. Then the gift.  Your gifts come from Him, right? He does not come from the gift."\par
"Thank you, Pastor de le Grande."\par
"You are welcome." Arthur began walking out.  Paul returned to his rabbet joint for a second.\par
"Arthur!" he called. \par
Arthur was back.\par
"Yes, sir."\par
"Do you know anything about carpentry?"\par
"Not a thing."\par
"Here. Grab a piece of that sandpaper and start sanding down the piece over there on the sawhorses.  I could use another pair of hands."\par
"Sure thing." \par
"Sand with the grain. Long, slow strokes."\par
"Got it."\par
\par
The day came when Paul and Jeannie and the others were stopped from entering the Epper church by the elders, who explained that they were no longer welcome. Jake Profim was no longer welcome, either.  From then on they would have to go elsewhere.\par
They decided to have services right there on the property.  There were twenty people who attended that first service.  It was held outdoors.   The worship team and Paul stood in a circle before the service and held hands.  They came to silence and bowed their heads. Paul looked around at Ian, the lead vocalist and guitar, and Sarah, backup singer and keyboard, and Arthur his apprentice carpenter on bass guitar,  and Mark on drums.  They had had one practice, that morning, after returning from Nicholls.  All were now life-long Eppers, now ex-Eppers.  Ian had come here already expelled. \par
"Let us pray," Paul said, and again there was that sense of resistance, like when he had said grace for the first time.\par
"There is something evil here," Ian, the worship leader and lead guitarist, said.  Paul had already come to appreciate his discernment in his choice of worship team members.\par
"Satan, get out of here in the name of Jesus," Paul commanded, and whatever it was was no longer felt.  \par
"The angel of the Lord encamps around those who fear Him, and he rescues them," Sarah said. \par
"Psalm 34:7" someone added.  Paul wondered if this was what they meant by the gift of prophecy.  Everyone present was ex-Epper, all of whom had been cast out because they believed God acted in these 'spectacular' gifts today.  It didn't seem all that spectacular.\par
"Resist the devil, and he will flee from you."\par
"Greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world."  \par
"Lord, send your angels to protect us, for we fear your Great and Powerful Name."\par
"Who is like you, O Lord? Who can resist your power?"\par
 More quotes and paraphrases followed, like a rainstorm. Paul hadn't thought about some of them applying to spiritual warfare until they were spoke. This was a new experience for him. Probably for all of them.  Some of them had committed the crime of attending a non-Epper charismatic service, which was probably where they had gotten some of these practices.  This was probably the first all-Epper service in many years that was open to all the gifts of the Holy Spirit. Paul was not going to stand in God's way.  As Jake said, neither choke the Ghost or shove the Dove.  Walk with Him, wherever He would take you.  Paul wished Jake was present, but Jake was off teaching somewhere.  He had heard that "things happened" in Jake's services, and Paul wondered what it was like to be actually at one.  Now, today, he would be in charge of one. \par
"Bind us tightly to you, Lord, let us hold onto you with all our hearts and minds and strength and souls."\par
"Ravish us with Your love, O Lord Jesus. We hunger and thirst for you as a deer pants for living water."\par
"Great is Your Name, O Lord, and you are worthy to be praised, Lord Jesus," someone else added.  More praises followed.  They were all excited to lead the people into the presence of the Lord.  This would not be grim, dutiful Epper worship but something Paul had not experienced before.  It was like there was electricity in the air, and Paul felt more alive and aware of things around him than he ever had before.  It was like God was right there, not just in an intellectual assent sort of way but in a real way he had never experienced before.\par
That sense of things being more-than-real continued throughout that service.  Paul looked back later with delight at that first service, although later services were, as they say, more anointed and more spectacular things happened, Jesus showed up at that service, and that was all he would say later about it.  It was the most important thing.\par
Jake called. He'd heard they were holding services there now.  He asked how it had gone, and Paul's one word answer was, "Fire!"  Jake said he understood.\par
======\par

\pard\f1\lang1033\par
\par
In the 1850s the Mueller family acquired the west half of Nicholls County. They farmed and ranched until they were forced to evacuate under General Order Number 11. After the Civil War they rebuilt their burned-out ranch and resumed operations until the 1870s: better land was to be found in Minnesota: the land here was not very productive for farming or ranching. While Snake Woods itself, both in the upper grounds and down in the ravine seemed to flourish, the land around it was parched for miles, almost soilless even past the area that would become the POW camp.  East of Snake Woods the ravine emptied out onto flat land.  A spring fed very shallow, algae covered rocks where dragonflies danced and mosquitoes hunted, but the water was too shallow for anything but insects.  There were a few pools but they were also shallow and far between and reeked. Westward from Snake Woods there also were no trees for miles and the soil slowly returned to normal prairie.\par
\par
To the eye the land looked completely flat, somehow barren wasteland, but there were rolling prairie hills with cottonwoods, black locusts and Osage oranges clinging to the the creekbeds. But the creeks were in unusually incised channels and there was not much width to them.\par
\par
From late 1942 to 1946 the deserted Mueller Ranch housed a POW camp for Italian officers on a leveled-out area over a mile long and over half a mile wide that went down into bedrock for much of its length. The POWs were set to finding the treasure, and anywhere there was soil was a place they dug up.  The soil was left in mounds or blew away.  In 1944 it was repurposed for German enlisted personnel and officers deemed dangerous:  the new orientation was more disciplinary: among the inmates were hard-core Nazis and soldiers who had attempted to escape, assaulted guards or fellow inmates. The Italian prisoners would be seen cleaning streets in Nicholls and they were trucked to work farms, but the camp underwent a sea-change, and even the guards were changed.  The later prisoners were taken directly to the camp and confined, and the guards never mingled in town. Unprovable, ugly rumors came from the camp, but no one in town knew the truth. All prisoners were repatriated in 1946, directly moved from the camp to the train station still under guard, and the camp was mostly razed. They repatriated the dead as well, and the graves were filled with gravel.  \par
\par
The camp quarried high quality limestone on its western edge, first to produce stone, later more as a disciplinary incentive. The Italians built a beautiful stone chapel as well as a few small walls. During the German internment the rock was mainly used as gravel to widen the field of fire around the camp. The army razed most of the camp after the war, pushing the buildings into large piles and burning them.  Broken glass and metal were also in the debris.  The quarry was also filled with debris, which was then set on fire. The army handed the property over to the Benedictines after the war as the Muellers could not then be found, according to some, or refused to accept the land back, according to others. Somehow it became Benedictine property.   The monks converted the few remaining buildings into a Retreat Center, including the stone chapel,  but maintenance issues and better facilities elsewhere caused them to close it. In 1967 the order offered it to the Boy Scouts and again to the military.  They had hoped the army would keep it as a bombing range or other purposes that would force the army to keep it forever. Neither the Scouts nor the military was interested.  The order kept the land until their lawyers found a clause that made the  land revert to the Muellers, who disputed it but were unwilling to take it to court. As church land, there had been no property taxes, but as private property there would be some.  The Muellers threatened to not pay the taxes and then the county would own it, but the county did not want it.  So the taxes were set to zero and the Muellers kept it.\par
 \par
\lang9 After the Benedictines left the gate vanished. The quarry became a dumping ground for old appliances, refrigerators, cars, garbage and trash of all kinds on top of what had been pushed into it after the war. But all the copper and electrical wire, plumbing pipes and anything of value was stripped from the buildings, which, aside from the stone chapel and a few small ornamental stone walls, had been built poorly in war-time.  Nicholls teenagers would come and dare each other to get near the snakes in Snake Woods, sometimes fatally.  They left trash down there and grafitti on the buildings. Someone broke all the remaining windows which speeded decay. Letters the County wrote the Muellers went unanswered; they were hoping the County would take the land. Erosion from the ever-present wind and water set in and crept out from the desertified camp, leaving vast areas of exposed limestone.\lang1033\par

\pard\li720\par

\pard\lang9 In 1965 the Muellers heard of Jake's first book and saw a way to rid themselves of their unwanted land, more of a nuisance than an asset. Initially they gave him the former federal lands containing   the POW camp hoping he would then be willing to accept the rest of the land. The surviving buildings the Benedictines had used were in dubiously repairable condition and the old Mueller Farm buildings were beyond repair.   Nicholls Epper Church members and a few readers of Jake's first book  got excited about the potential of those buildings as a retreat center or publishing house or the land as a place to train missionary pilots: there were many ideas but the potential never advanced to be concrete plans, and Jake made no commitment. His only comment on it then was whether there was enough grass to run horses on it.  He thought not.\par
\par
During prayer one night in April 1966 some Eppers and campers on retreat watched a tornado touch down half a mile southwest, roar through and then lift. Despite their prayers and rebukes of the storm the usable buldings were destroyed, including the stone chapel,  but the old farm was spared.  No one was injured and no cars or campers were damaged  A hard rain following completed the ruin.  Afterwards they bulldozed the destroyed buildings into another mound of debris. All plans, hopes and dreams for the place were also flattened. \lang1033\par

\pard\li720  \par

\pard Paul and Jeannie de le Grande arrived in November 1966.  Paul soon put the gate back up, but never locked it as he believed the Lord was their defender.    On his first night there he had a terrible dream of Nazis camping right outside the trailer and a burning settlement in the background, bad enough that he woke shaking.  It took him days to shake the sense of evil. He was even tempted to put a lock on the gate, but finally decided that would be trusting man not the Lord.\par
\par
Jake probed to see if Paul felt God had forgotten or abandoned Paul   Really, he knew God was true.  Jake told the story of the tornado. We can trust God no matter what. "I quite agree."   Jake preached on The Hidden God, which sermon Paul deeply inspired and appreciated. Paul told him about the dream and the lock. It sounded to Jake like Paul was trusting God - and going overboard, if he was, was better than doubt.  It was not presumption but rather an old Epper custom to not lock things. \par
\par
Jeannie didn't want to just hang around the property; she wanted people contact.  She got involved in a prayer group at the Epper church that was spongy charismatic (using charismatic lingo, open to the gifts, the sort of thing that the Eppers soon shut down.   \par
Jake as their pastor had to evaluate this against Scripture, nudging him towards the edges of what the Eppers would allow regarding the gifts of the Holy Spirit. Independent of this, he was considering this question in the contect of pastoral experience and seeing God answer prayers for healing.  Gladys Sykes, a newcomer, prayed for healing of a tumor. She had not been taught yet that "We don't do that", and was healed visibly:  it  shrank as Jake laid hands on her as the both experienced a sensation of sudden heat, quite out of Jake's experience. Jake asked her to keep it quiet.\par
\par
Instead she had this incident was written up in the \i Epper Epistle\i0 , and as a result Jake  was charged with heresy after a short investigation by the Committee on Doctrinal Purity, and then removed from his pastorate in 1976.  In hopes of repentence, and due to his prominence and clout,  they did not laicize him. \par
 \par
De le Grandes were involved in the Nicholls church until then.  At the time Jake's road ministry was flourishing and his books were commercially successful.  Paul hunted but game was scarce: the land could not support very many people.  He worked in construction for years both in Nicholls and farther away part-time, both for contractors and for himself, but if there was something on the property he preferred to do it himself for many years after. Jake opened up his property to exiled Eppers who had become victims of the CDP.  He had no expectations that anyone would come. Paul and Jeannie hardscrabbled a garden. They attended the Clinton church until services started on the property.\par
\par
\lang9 On the road Jake inadvertantly "cast vision" for a refuge city, including talking about the tornado as sometimes you just don't know God's will - he suspected more people had prayed the old farmhouse would be taken and the buildings spared, but the reverse happened. Sometimes you don't know what God has in mind.  \par
\par
Joyce Dunbar and family were among the first to arrive. On her first night on the campus she had a terrible dream.  She woke up suddenly, covered in sweat, rebuking Satan.  She never had one like it again.  What was in it? She could never remember, and did not want to remember it.\lang1033\par

\pard\li720\ul\b\par

\pard\ulnone\b0\lang9 Paul de le Grande found the Phelps\lang1033  diamond \lang9 hidden in the fallen, rotten oak in front of the old farmhouse. He did not know what to do with it so he showed it to Jake.  To whom does it belong?  Him, since it is on his property, or the Muellers, or the storied Phelps? Or the people Phelps gave it to, or did he really give it to them to any more than look at? And do any of those people have descendents?  They did not have time or interest in sorting it out, and Eppers habitually shun great wealth or its potential.  Sorting out the diamond would raise enormous legal hassles as well as bring unwanted treasure hunters. Paul had been reading Lord of the Rings and he was thinking about the power and temptation of expensive, precious things.  They finally put it down the old outhouse hole, and it reminded Paul of putting the Ring into Mount Doom as he did so. Which of us is Frodo and which Gollum? Jake got it, and laughed. They shoveled dirt in after it, and mentioned it to no one. \par
\par
\lang1033 Paul put a safety fence around the old barn, farmhouse and outbuildings. The soil was so rocky the septic field did not work, so he dug a lagoon big enough for his wife and himself. He built a low-walled 100' by 100' berry garden that mainly attracted deer. They ate the deer.  Over the years they added soil and the garden became fertile. Paulbrought in dirt  after he found the mounds unusable.  They worked on expanding the garden every year. \par
\par
Paul built the stable, as Jake wanted to try running horses on the land. The stony ground was a concern.\par
\par
Then people began to arrive, first Eppers capable of being self-supporting even to the point of building their own housing (which Paul was more than happy to help with) and raising their own food (which Jeannie, as a master gardener, was there for), a challenge on the rocky groun.  These were highly resourceful, hard-working, competent and able-bodied Eppers used to arduous settlement life. Services began.  Nonetheless they found the land especially challenging, as no one builds a settlement in such a place. Some of the early Eppers, when they became numerous enough, formed a settlement in the north of the county, where the land was more fertile.  This was New Hope. Great Plains formed, but when it was time to choose a location, they opted to leave Nicholls County.\par
\par
The second wave had Eppers, but mostly consisted of people who were seeking God in the Refuge City they had heard was being built here.  Some were unable to care for themselves, some sick, elderly and disabled arrived, or had what was termed 'life-issues', who came for healing or counsel. Some were trainable, some were asked to leave, all of which took time and effort.  The Eppers attempted to meet all these needs, but some needs were overwhelming. Jake was willing and able to give, but sometimes he would forget, and it depended both on what his road ministry brought in and his own expenses. Nothing had prepared him for supporting whatever was happeniing on his property while he was fully engaged in road ministry, and teaching, research and following the many doors that had opened to him was more than a full-time job. His donors opined that there was no reason for giving these few people any money to simply live on the land, when he mentioned it. Supplies and money were irregular: whenever Jake would remember them, and he had no financial sense or idea of how much was needed: his mind did not work that way. The Epper settlements on the property were struggling and could only do so much.  They were also continually pointing out that the Ranch could not continue as it was but it needed to become self-sustaining.  With that in mind, New Hope cut off all aid after three yearrs.  They warned Paul after a year of helping support what was happening, and then gave him a two-year deadline. They kept their word.\par
\par
Paul, more comfortable doing carpentry work alone than anything else, also had no experience that would help him - only the seminary training, which was heavy on theology and light on management skills.  But he was on site and Jake vaguely indicated he was the man on site.  So he was looked to for leadership.  He realized his own limits and allowed self-organization to predominate.  God gave the place people with the right gifts for the work needed doing.  People with expertise applied that expertise to the needs, and people were naturally drawn to what they were good at.  But there was no planning, no overall plan, no focus, no mission statement, nothing of that sort.  Yet Paul would preach exegetically, laboriously, interminably in a dull dry voice from the Greek text, identifying each word by its grammatical parts, cognates and opposites, and God would show up with signs and wonders, and there was great joy and a sense of the anointing and presence of God.  Paul never credited it to himself. He also gave amazing counsel, but often you would have to go find him and talk to him with his hammer in his hand.  \par
\par
The first house was turned into a medical center.  Church was conducted in another house with multiple services, or outside if the weather was decent.  \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\lang9\par
\par
\par
 \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
}
 