{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl ;\red155\green0\blue211;\red0\green77\blue187;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 July 3, 1975 7 PM Profim Property\b0\par
"And how is Steve?" Keith stopped Dr. Herzenstube in the hall.\par
"He's awake.  I think you can talk to him and he will remember. It will be a full recovery, but his leg will be sore for some time.  Normally I would send a snakebit that bad to the ER, but-" he gestured at the state of the art medical equipment in the medical center -"We really have better equipment than they do over at Nicholls General. It is amazing.  We have six beds that could pass for a top-rated ICU in a flagship hospital. And our nurses are top of the line-"\par
"Thank you, doctor," one said as she passed him in the hall. \par
Keith had seen any number of hospital beds on pastoral visits.  While he did not have a doctor's professional assessment, he could tell a lot, and there was no reason to disagree. He knocked and entered the room. The patient was alone, reading his Bible and listening to a music tape. He closed the Bible and turned off the tape player when he saw Keith.\par
"Bishop Berg - I am honored-"\par
"Well, formerly Bishop Berg. Let's not talk about being honored.  I prefer to be called Elder Berg, please.  Some call me Uncle Keith, some Father Keith, but let's stick to Elder Berg, shall we? I am not here as a bishop but to see how you are, and talk about what happened."  Keith noted that Steve's color was returning, although the leg was still somewhat swollen. It was covered by the sheet. Keith didn't know if that was swelling or bandages or compresses. He put the question to the side and looked Steve in the eye.\par
"I was stupid and prideful," Steve said, and looked down, "Proud, stubborn, stiffnecked, obstinate, refractory.  I have sown the wind and reaped the whirlwind. I cannot believe I was this stupid."\par
"I often cannot believe how stupid I am as well," Keith told him. "I assume you are talking about your visit to the snakes."\par
"Yes," Steve said quietly," Even though I was warned, despite everything, I walked two miles and then into the tall grass claiming Mark 16:18 'they will pick up serpents and if they drink any deadly poison,it shall not hurt them.'"\par
"Go on," Keith said softly.\par
"And I saw one.  I was bending down to pick it up when another one struck me from behind! I walked out of the tall grass and laid down.  Ben was with me.  He was going to take my picture with one and then he was going to pick one up himself, and I was going to take his picture.  We wanted to show everyone what great faith we had. We were mighty men of valor. Fools, more likely."\line   Steve glanced up at his IV bag. " I wonder if they put truth serum in that morphine drip. I seem to be talking more than I usually do.  My leg is numb, thanks for asking.  I am on some kind of anti-snake stuff, antivenin.  Those snakes are nasty. Territorial, sneaky, quick-striking. Lethal."\par
"Yes. I have spoken with Ben.  He has been here several times over the last few days.  People have been praying for you.  Paul de le Grande and I have laid hands on you and prayed for you. I think everyone who has heard has prayed for you."\par
"I appreciate it. I mean, I do.  I would probably be dead right now otherwise."\par
"Yes. I am afraid I am going to ask you to confess your sins in this matter. You see, we already did the 'laying on of hands part', actually in the order in James 5. James speaks of laying on the hands BEFORE praying for healing, most interestingly, restoration preceding forgiveness. Then comes the reverse order, of course, but both orders are present.  You may consider than God will forgive your sins.  He has kept you alive through this."\par
"Did you just say several days?"\par
"You have been out for a while, I am afraid.  I am relieved to hear that you are better. Your parents are here.  They have sat with you."\par
"Well, I didn't listen to instructions, I was prideful and foolish and presumptuous. May the Lord forgive me! I will never go there again if I can help it. Or be presumptuous like that."\par
"In the way of confessing sin I think that should cover it. You are getting repetitive, and repetitive confession of the same sin is not healthy.  I think you have said enough, Steve.  You know He delights to forgive the penitent.  Mend your ways and consider yourself forgiven." Keith made the sign of the cross over Steve. Steve smiled.\par
"Well, that is not everything."\par
Keith waited. \par
"Why did God put the snakes there? Why couldn't He have protected me from them by not letting me near them? I thought He was guiding me, I really did.  And why didn't I just die? It would have been a lot easier than going through this."\par
"We don't know the why.  Or the how, for that matter.  Sometimes it is hard enough to discern His leading, and sometimes we all make mistakes.  Forgive me for sounding trite, but it is not: we do not know the why or the how, but we know the Who.  We have to go back to how God revealed Himself and what we know of Him.  We can trust Him, even when we have no answers, and even when we have answers but they make no sense.  I do not think I can give you any better advice than to ask Him and trust Him with the answer in His time." \par
"When people come here, they are given a lot of information.  Perhaps we should say more about the snakes, even if it makes the introduction longer.  Are you familiar with Ilha de Queimada Grande?"\par
"Never heard of it." Steve shook his head. \par
"Well, I think of it when I think of Snake Woods.  You see, the snakes in Snake Woods have a reputation at least a hundred years old.  It is the only woods in the west half of Nicholls county - it is like an island.  Migratory birds come and rest in the trees - no other place is large enough for the flocks.  And the snakes feed.  They have developed a venom that we think is startingly strong - more toxic than typical rattlesnake venom.  There are stories over the last century of people going near the place and being struck and dying on the spot. We plead with people to leave it alone."\par
"Why is it there?"\par
"I don't think anyone knows for sure.  No one dares go into it because of the risk. It seems to be at a water draw, and there may be a ravine or something - anyway there is a creek that leaves it , if you can call it a creek and not a slimy wide band of water trickling over rock -and drains towards Truman Lake. Anyway the rain tends to run towards it.  Perhaps an engineer could explain it.  But back to Ilha de Queimada Grande - in English, it is known as Snake Island.  It is off the coast of Brazil and no one is allowed to set foot on it without authorization.  There is a fast-acting venom that those snakes have developed. It is hideously lethal.  You were not struck deeply, and the snake that struck you hit at an angle - only one fang made it through your boot leather and into your foot, and that not very deeply, so not much venom got in your system.  But enough.  We have been gravely concerned.  You may be the first person in recorded history to have survived being bitten by those snakes. And that is something to consider. Your life was spared.  You may not consider it a miracle, but you barely survived barely being bitten.  God protected you."\par
"That is an honor I would rather forego.  Perhaps I am to be a sign and a testimony to Israel - stay away from the snakes!"\par
"Perhaps.  When you are better, you might consider telling people at Sunday assembly what you did? Not in self-condemnation, but as a warning to others.  I would not want to embarrass you, but then a lot of people have been praying for you.  They would be pleased to see you back among us."\par
"I would be happy to. Why don't you just burn out the snakes?"\par
"You may have noticed the thick grass - it starts where the ground is almost soggy and the scattered trees begin.  I don't think Snake Woods is particularly flammable, and after all, it is two miles or more away from us. There is concern about what the exposed snakes might do.  They seem to be territorial and aggressive. And numerous.  This has been discussed - it's not worth the risk.  We leave them alone and they leave us alone.  Perhaps God has a purpose in thinning the flocks when they hit Snake Woods.  That would be messing with the ecosystem. That is a new word.  It means that the birds have a role to play, and the snakes do, and messing with one might have all sorts of effects on other organisms.  We also have a rather strongly written letter from the Missouri Department  of Natural Resources telling us to leave them alone.  Rare and endangered species, or some such."\par
"I see.  Well, I would be happy to tell my story.  Not to boast but to tell people to stay away from the snakes."\par
"That would be really appreciated.  Well, I am glad you are feeling better."\par
"So am I.  Am I going to recover feeling in my leg?"\par
"Talk to the doctor.  I certainly hope so.  I have band practice, and then I am driving home to Harrisonville."\par
"You don't live here?"\par
"No, we don't.  My wife's mother lives with us and living here would present some difficulties.  We also have seven children and the houses here are better served for other purposes.   Hopefully things will improve here - it really seems like there are too many people.  You may have noticed that."\cf1  \par
\cf0 Steve nodded. "Well, here was an opportunity to get rid of one, but you saved my life anyway."\par
"That was not directed at you, just an observation."\par
"I didn't think you were talking to me."  Inwardly Keith wondered if that was a pattern with him.\par
"Well, I must go.  I will visit you again."\par
"I would like that."\par
\par
"He's fine, making a splendid recovery," Keith told the band of prayer warriors outside. \par
"Thank you, Bishop Berg."\par
He smiled.  At some point that had to stop, but it was useful sometimes. It was meant in respect, of course.  Some Epper women covered their heads or checked their hats when they saw him coming - it was a tradition for women to show a bishop respect by covering among a  strand of Russian Eppers that he had thought had died out.  He had never seen it in Ohio, in fact, never before he had come here.   But here it was.  Maybe some people were reviving a tradition that had died out with good reason long ago. Among some Epper communities unmarried women had formerly worn kerchiefs one way when single, another when married, a third when they had their first child, a fourth way when widowed.  Nothing standard, as far as he knew.  There were these fads that came and went, and part of his job was to stand strong and not be tossed and carried about by every wind of doctrine...he recited Ephesians 4: 14 to 4:16 to himself in Greek as he walked.  These winds against the charismata, winds about perfectionism, total sanctification, emotionalism, these fads like the banners and praise dancing came and went.  What would last? What was God building? It seemed people wanted to have their ears tickled, to find the latest gift and try it on, like ladies at a department store fitting room. There was also a strain of unconditional surrender to Christ here, one that he endeavored to seek out and encourage.  People had paid a price to come here and he was not one to want them to throw it away. And there were also kooks, flakes, nuts, weirdos, thrill-seekers and people who had no other place to go, so they might as well be here.  He worked patiently with all of them, seeking to bring any spark of the Gospel to full flame in the lives of these people.  The charismata were good and useful gifts, unless sought for their own spectacle and apart from a focus on the Giver, the Crucified and Resurrected Lord.  \par
It was useful to be a bishop. sometimes. Keith found himself talking to people here who respected anyone who had been a bishop - the Catholics, Lutherans, Methodists, Episcopalians - and some of the more low church people gave his statements weight that they would not have given him if he had never mentioned it.  Some argued that there was a specific charism given in the office.  He had his doubts, based on Scripture, the Fathers, and reason.  Keith saw the office as simply another manifestation of the common gift to the church of elders, of whom some were pastors and some were elders.  He did not particularly separate the two in his current thinking - another subject on which he and the Eppers had parted ways.  He had come to this 'charismatic renewal' through the back door, so to speak. He saw the charismata as the rightful continuation of church history and cessationism as a doctrinal and historical aberration, so he was loath to criticize the manifestations he had seen and heard about without full and proper investigation.  Most of the literature was so one-sided for or against the gifts that the historical view of the church seemed to get lost between the spectacular and the prohibition.  The difficulty was in finding the right use of a gift, which was like trying to find faith in a man. Difficult to pin down its exact location.  The gifts were part of the distribution of grace and Christ's gift to the church through the Holy Spirit.  Some things made it seem like they were amusements,for the entertainment of people, or for self-promotion.  Much of what he was doing was helping people out of error; he would rather be spending more time teaching people the proper use of the gifts in the context of a whole, holy and worshipful surrendered Christian life than apart from the fire that birthed them.  There really wasn't much material on how to use them properly, in his opinion.  Part of that was a lack of a properly developed theology, which of course in his own view would be based on Epper belief as he understood it.  He smiled to himself.  He of course was not the be-all and end-all of theology. Thinking through these things got him kicked out and removed from pastoral and episcopal functions. He still read  widely in church history (not just Epper sources) and he sought out good accounts of the charismata throughout church history.  Perhaps he could write again. His book on church history had been the standard text used in the seminary until he was removed from office. It would have been handy if God had given them a 12-volume set on How To Use the Gifts.  God's silence on the subject in revelation highlighted where he did speak: speak the truth in love, for example.  Use the gifts in charity, not as Fourth-of-July fireworks.  All things decently in order, but not snuffing out the Spirit, either.  It was All things, and sometimes some things were not done that should be done, because it was safer to insist on order and decency.  He would rather have some Davids before the ark than money changers.  Here he had both, and everything else in this crazy melange of humanity that had come here. He admitted he had a preoccupation with the regulative and orderly side of charismata.  He was always asking how they could do things in an orderly manner but not quench the Spirit? \par
This brought him back to his third and final conversation with the Kansas City bishop.  He sighed.  He and John had met again the first day of seminary - pleasantly surprised, as they had been prayer partners on a mission trip to India in high school but had lost touch since. John and he had been good friends, studying together, partying together, taking the same classes, even playing in the seminary Dixieland band together, Keith on trumpet and John on banjo. Good times.  Their interests converged and both were convinced they had made a valued, lifelong friends.  They had attended each other's ordinations even though Keith was in Ohio and John in Missouri.  And they had shared the same installation ceremony as bishops, both taking chairs at the same time. For years they had continued to correspond and served together on the denominational pastoral committee and had modified the program for training elder candidates.  John had "expressed his concern" when Keith had gotten in trouble with the CDC but had said nothing, either supportive or critical, since Keith had been laicized, ostracized and exiled.  The separation was a dull pain among the pain of losing so many other valued friends.  But here was John the bishop, and Keith no longer in any office. They had gone their separate ways. \f1\lang1033  \f0 The bishop - he seemed distant, formal, official now, rather than Keith's colleague John - had asked to meet with Keith.  The first time was purely formal, and Keith understood the conflict John must be feeling between the friendship and what he had to do as a bishop.  But it was clear there was no conflict: Keith was an errant son, beloved, but he had gone astray.  The Eppers were also not happy that so many people, instead of repenting, move to the Profim property. Was Keith aiding and abetting heresy?  The bishop understood Keith was doing some pastoral counseling and operating in that role, which of course could only be viewed as presumption.  For the sake of the friendship, if any remained, Keith thanked him and told him he would think about it. Any remaining friendship seemed to be like broken cobwebs waving in the wind. \par
Then the bishop asked for a second meeting.  He was even more formal.  He pointed out that a bishop has to be loyal to the denomination and does not act alone, and must support the oficial actions of others, and that Keith had taken an oath to that effect; now he was an oath-breaker, and seemingly unrepentant. Keith responded that he had to be loyal to God first and the church second.  He expected the response he got, and so it did not surprise him when the bishop stated that since God acts through the church, you must be loyal to God by being loyal to the church.  \tab Sometimes, Keith responded, the church errs and blind loyalty to the church does not correct the mistakes made: a bishop has the duty to correctly teach.  The bishop asked him how he dared correct him, and he did not appreciate being called blindly loyal. That ended the second meeting. \par
Keith had been astonished when the bishop had asked for a third meeting several months later.  Perhaps he would be reinstated?  But no: this would be his third and final rebuke.  For the sake of the old friendship, which he had valued highly, he would try these three times and then, if Keith did not repent, that would be it.  That had been singularly painful to Keith: before, the exile had been someting of a generality; here it was emphatically personal. With pain and turmoil Keith heard how the bishop saw him as a proud, rebellious child in error; his fatherly duty was to admonish him even though he has already been formally admonished: God is patient and he values the relationship enough to attempt this.  Keith pointed out in doing so that he was violating the church directive that he himself be shunned, thereby being in a contradication:  he was rebuking Keith for going against church directives when he himself was currently doing so. At what price does the bishop sell intellectual honesty? His soul, even?  The bishop angrily responded that he could ask Keith the same.  Keith, not he, was the one in error here.   On thinking on how bitter it was Keith grieved over the loss of a great friendship, and it seemed John was more the office now, as if he had lost his soul. Almost.  Keith sighed and pushed it out of his mind.  \lang9\par
Keith liked worship practice - it took him away from silly people and grief and bad theology and allowed him to center his life again on Christ.  Sometimes he sang and he also played trumpet, and in some services he did both.  Lukas was leading worship, an energetic former Southern Baptist, now a tongue-talking lover of Jesus, adept at guitar and keyboard and vocals. Keith agreed with the comment someone had made just the other day about Lukas: his eyes are on fire with the love and mercy of God'.  Lukas had the ability to select who should sing and play what - something Keith had no idea how to do - so it really sounded tight.  Keith could take the back seat and direction and not have to worry about being in charge.  On those days he was preaching, he did not serve on the worship team.  That would have been too much.  He would also have been totally lost in leading a congregation in free worship - there was a good deal of that, music without words, people standing, hands lifted up, some talking or singing in tongues.  Lukas always seemed to know when to start and stop it and how to control it, and how to respond to prophetic words that came forth.  When Keith was on worship, none of that was his responsibility.  It might become his later, however, because sometimes people needed to be guided about what they did or what they heard.  Gently and carefully guided, not slammed or poked, just carefully guided. Lukas sometimes asked Keith perceptive questions and looked up to him as a mentor, but Keith honestly admired the wisdom with which Lukas handled the situations that arose. Some of them would have left him dumbfounded.  Grace intersected their lives in different ways.\par
They had practiced 'I am the Resurrection' until Lukas was satisfied, which actually took some time, as Lukas was also a perfectionist. Paul de la Grande, on deck to preach, quietly slipped in to listen.  There had been two distinct views on the preacher knowing about the worship, and the worship team being clued in on the sermon.  The view they had discarded had been that you kept them in ignorance of each other and let the Holy Spirit guide both.  But they felt a better understanding by both parties of what the other was planning would help bring more unity, so the preacher would come and hear some of the worship practice, and the preacher would also tell them the subject of the sermon.  Sometimes, though, Keith had stood in the pulpit and known, absolutely known, that the sermon he had prepared was the wrong one, and he would give an entirely different message extemporaneously. And there were times when he had two or three sermons prepared, not knowing which to give, and would give one of them, or throw all three out and just preach extemporaneously. \par
Lukas brought their practice to a pause.  Everyone climbed down from the stage and they stood in a circle holding hands.  They waited.  Nikki and Jennifer, the female vocalists, were quetly singing in tongues.  Paul looked up, then stood and came forward and joined them. A music stand was handed down to him for his notes.  In silence he carefully adjusted the music stand to suit him, locked it, and then placed his notes on it. \par
"Lord, we cling to you, cling to you, like a waistband to the waist of a man," Keith prayed.\par
There were murmurs of "Yes, Lord!"\par
"The only strength we have is you Lord. You are our strength, our support, our supply, our hope, our love, our life."\par
"Yes, Lord, yes!"\par
"Let us walk intimately with you, as was Your hope for ancient Israel and Judah.  Make us, O Lord, a people for renown, for praise and for glory.  Grant us ears to hear and hearts to respond for Your renown, for praise unto You, and for Your glory."\par
"Glory to You, King Jesus!"\par
"We worship You, worship You, worship You!"\par
"Our defender, maker, supply, strength, healer!"\par
"You are the Lord Our Provider, the Lord Our Healer, the Lord Our Banner, the Lord Our Peace, the Lord our Shepherd!"\par
"The Lord, the Lord, great in power and wisdom!"\par
"Who is like the Lord Almighty, there is no one else!"\par
"Heaven and earth bow down to You, O God, Maker of heaven and earth, Creator, Redeemer, King and Friend!"\par
"You set the stars in their places and the planets in their orbits! You stretched out Your hand and made the galazies in all their vastness and size!"\par
"The heavens declare the glory of God!"\par
"And the skies display His craftmanship!"\par
"Worthy, worthy, worthy are you King Jesus!"\par
"To receive honor and power and glory forever and ever and ever and ever!"\par
"We look for the day when we can worship you forever! Amen," Keith brought it to a close. Everyone looked up at each other, smiling.  Truly the Lord was here, Keith thought.  Nikki looked like she was really feeling 'the fire of the Lord' - something he had no better way of explaining.  It was not how God interacted with him, personally, but he could see it or sense it on other people.  Keith often wrestled with charismatic terminology - saying that the Holy Spirit was on someone was less precise.  They really needed someone to develop Epper charismatic theology.\par
 Paul moved the stand to improve lighting.  He then ignored his notes and addressed the worship team.  The music team had never known him to look at his notes after arranging them.  Paul also denied being any sort of leader around the place, although he was looked to for leadership from everyone.  Keith deferred to him.  He would, he often said, rather be out building something.  But he was also fifty-five and his body was telling him he soon would have to leave the heavy lifting and nailing to other people. Not yet, but the day was coming.\par
"The  consensus is building among some of us who are in leadership that we do not have the resources to accommodate the number of people that are arriving.  God will provide, God has provided, God is providing, but there is a balance between faith and foolhardiness. We are not to put the Lord to the test.  We have all seen God provide miraculously and in amazing ways.  We have not been hungry or ill or gone without shelter, thanks to His miraculous provision.  And in some cases it has been via prophetic words, words of knowledge, things I cannot describe openly because those who provided do not wish to be celebrities.  I have always stressed and emphasized this, that God loves His people and cares for them and provides for them.  But there is this other thing, and that is being sensible.  Practical. Maybe I sound like my wife now, but there needs to be some planning, some looking ahead.  I am not saying there is to be doubting.  But people need to take care of their families.  Winter can bite here, can bite hard, and I really hate the idea of trying to survive in a tent, like many people are living in, all winter.  And we are not planning on organizing a school, at least not this year.  There are simply too many other things.  I recognize the need for an administrator, someone with the gifts of organization,  to step up.  I am not that person. We do not believe anyone here is that person, nor that we should go seeking a Saul or give birth to an Ishmael. We must wait for a David, an Isaac, in the Lord's timing.  We do not have time or money or skill enough to build enough houses for everyone to be here this winter.  The showers will - I am not sure what we will do.  We will be able to winterize some, but not all.  People need to think through: is God really calling me to be here now.  And does that call mean you must live out here?  Perhaps you can find housing and schools in Adrian or Butler or Harrisonville, or even farther away, and come here on weekends and evenings.  People need to be gainfully employed and not just sitting around.  We have all prayed for Steve.  He wants to give his testimony of how he was almost killed by presumption when he went down to Snake Woods.  There is a lesson there, and that is sometimes you should just stay away from what you know will kill you.  It is common sense.  We are overcrowded.  I am grateful to the Lord for sending so many people, but many need to leave.  Do not stay because you want to be a hero.  If you leave, you can return. If you stay, winter can be terrible here."\par
People murmured.  Lukas whistled. There was a silence. "If you give that message, people will leave," he said. \par
"That is the idea."  Lukas said nothing, in a loud sort of silence.\par
 Mike the Drummer asked, "With all due respect, where is your faith? Man, that is not a positive word.  What Scripture are you using to back this up?"\par
"I can think of some," Keith broke in. "This is not just Paul's idea. We have been seeking the mind of the Lord.  Mike, I am thinking of Judges 7:4: 'the people who are with you are still too many'  and 'Many are called, but few are chosen.' And you do not build a tower unless you consider the cost before hand.  There is wisdom in prudence, and prudence in wisdom."\par
Dan, bass guitar, said,"I hope you have people sitting down when you say that. I feel like sitting down and letting it percolate through my brain.  That is a heavy word and is hard to receive."\par
With that Nikki left the circle and sat down on one of the folding chairs scattered about at the front.  The others followed, forming a circle of folding chairs. Nikki was sobbing,"So many have given up so much to move here. Jobs and families and careers and friends and money. People arrive here penniless more often than not and you are asking them to LEAVE? 'We have left everything to follow you'...Now you are saying, go? Where can they go?  What did Jake say about this? Does he know you are talking like this?"\par
Paul was surprised at the reaction. But then Nikki was almost always moved to tears.  The worship team referred to her as The Sprinkler sometimes, in affection.  She admitted she teared up quickly.  Later he told Keith that if he had heard that message, he would have calmly packed up and left if he believed that was what the Lord said.\par
"Jake knows," Keith said quietly. He wished that Paul had been a little more indirect concerning what he and Jake and Paul had been thinking, along with many others.  Joyce Dunbar was probably the most accurate person he had ever met in sensing the leading of the Holy Spirit.  The Dunbars were moving to Nicholls, and had decided that before these thoughts had crystallized in Keith's mind.  It was simply impracticable to continue things the way they had been going.  There was no easy way to say it.  \par
"Nikki, people gave those things up because they were following Jesus," he told her, in the hearing of all. "If they hold too tightly to this place, they are holding onto it, or onto the vision of what they think Jesus is doing, instead of on Christ alone."\par
"Unnnh," Lukas muttered, "Good point."\par
"You've said before that this place is totally unexpected.  I mean, it caught Jake totally by surprise when people started showing up here."  Dan was reflecting on things. Good.\par
"Jeannie and I moved here because we had no place else to go. Then Jake told other people they could live here.  And then word spread somehow among the Eppers that if you got kicked out from the Epper community, you could come here, to the Eppers in Exile here.  And then Jake spoke on the Refuge City.." Paul sighed.\par
Keith continued, "Which had nothing to do with the earthly city, with this place, but people thought he was talking about this place.  He was talking about the church, the universal Church - capitalized - being a refuge for the hurting, and that the refuge should be manifested locally as the Kingdom of God in the midst of 'a crooked and perverse generation.' He had no intent to create what is happening here."\par
"So he wants us all to leave?" this was Nikki,"this is the land God gave us out of compassion. My people were kicked out of Germany: leave or die, they told us. And many died. My family sent my parents as children to an Epper settlement in North Dakota. The ones in Europe all died.  Then that Committee on Doctrinal Purity kicked me out of being an Epper. I have no where to go.  How can you ask me to leave? I have nowhere to go. Absolutely nowhere. How is it he wants us all to leave? Many here have stories like mine. He wants us all to leave?" \par
"Not at all.  He wants everyone to follow Christ, not him. To follow Christ, not the vision of a refuge city." \par
"Hold on, I'm taking notes," Paul muttered. "I am planning to say a lot of this. I think it will answer questions."\line\line "People can live in driving distance and still be involved here, and when there is enough in the way of facilities so they can safely live here, they can come back.  Our 'Christian Woodstock' must end and we need to move on to the next stage of our life together, whatever that may be."\par
"Keith, for the first time I think I am realizing there is no founding vision or Word or creative Word or prophecy that went into creating what we have here.  I know many people have come and prophesied, but I am not sure you have ever fully embraced any of the words that have come forth about what this is. By 'you' I mean you and Paul and Jake."\par
Keith nodded. "We have sought to be guided by the Biblical mandates more than by prophetic counsel.  Prophecy is a great gift, but in my opinion it is overused.  I am not so sure the Lord speaks as fuzzily as some words that I have heard, that cannot be evaluated as to whether they are true or false. Someone telling us 'thus saith the Lord, yea I have great plans for thee' may have a good heart and the word may be indeed encouraging, but there is little guidance there. Most of what we hear is of that sort, or is regurgitation of other words or rumors of what has been said and repeated.  I am not trying to be cynical, but if I said something about peanut butter in my sermon next Sunday, we would have ten or twelve words over the next year that include 'peanut butter'.  There are a few people with the real gift: when they give a word, you know absolutely it is the Lord speaking.  And there are some you wish God would give a word to, because you know it would be dead-on accurate."\par
"Joyce Dunbar, for one."  \par
"Yes.  I was actually thinking of her. I have seen her give dead-on words, but it has always been in a small group, never in the service, and never about the direction of this place."\par
"Do we have any confirmed prophetic words about this place?"\par
Keith thought for a moment.  Was Lukas even listening? Perhaps he was distraught enough to not hear.  "Actually, no. It is perhaps ironic that the Lord does not seem to be giving audible direction to a group of people who insist that God speaks today.  In that case we fall back on the Scriptures, reason, wisdom and the knowledge that He has given us, and ask the Holy Spirit to guide us.  Each of us, individually, and all of us, corporately.  Most of the words have been about Who God is, not what He is doing.  And that should be enough, really.  We know the Who, not the how.  He is the guide and the roadmap and the trail.  Way truth life."\par
"So we don't know what we are doing? There is no certainty?" this was Nikki.\par
"I said nothing of that sort.  We follow the Lord one step at a time.  We know with certainty He guides us.  We know who He is, not how He will guide us, where He will take us, or what we will experience.  He is the certainty we all long for and have and embrace.  Not this place."\par
"So.....this place can be an idol.  An idol is anything you value more than Him.  I think you preached that?" Nikki looked at him.\par
"Well put, Nikki."\par
"Let me right that down," this was Paul, who was furiously taking notes. \par
"He who brought you here can lead you away again. And bring you back again.  What does it say about a man who leaves something for the sake of the Lord?"\par
There was a silence.  Was this the end of everything, when so many thought it was the beginning of great things? They looked at each other in some sorrow, but they also knew their commitment, individually and corporately, was to Christ, not to some piece of property and the ideas of man. Dreams blossom, flowers fade, but the Word of our God stands forever.\par
"He will receive it back a thousand fold," Dan said.  He absent-mindedly strummed the harmony to 'Seek ye first the kingdom of God.'  Jennifer, then Nikki, started humming along and Lukas started singing it softly.  He picked up his guitar and started the harmony and Mike went back to the drums and softly added rhythm.  They played and sang it for some minutes.\par
Keith said nothing about the fact that they had left the instruments on stage, and somehow, now, they were at hand, without anyone moving them.  He had not noticed when they had appeared in their circle of chairs. The key to experiencing the miraculous was to focus on the One Who makes miracles. He silently thanked the Good Lord as he looked around.\par
"Marvellous," Paul said, after a silence.\par
"Thank you," Nikki said, smiling with a little difficulty. \par
"I think we have our closing song," Lukas said, "I wasn't sure what we were going to do, but there it is."\par
Keith looked at his watch. "You will have to excuse me - dinner with the family in Harrisonville."\par
"There is an object lesson for you," Dan pointed out, to some laughter. \par
They said their goodbyes to Keith. \par
\i Seminary type\i0 , Keith thought to himself, as he saw the man by the door. He had been waiting. \par
"Dr. Berg?" the young man said.  Late twenties, bookish indeed.\par
"Elder Berg."\par
"Sorry."\par
"I'm running late.  I can talk to you on the way to my car, but if it takes longer than that, you will have to make an appointment. You are new here, right?" It would take five minutes to get to the car. You could do an amazing amount in five minutes, he had learned.  \par
"The CDC just denied me a pastorate.  I went through seminary and then -"\par
"There are many who have been removed from office, many with years in the pastorate. You have come to the right shop."\par
"It just hurts."\par
"Tell me about it."   Hopefully there was no sarcasm.  Keith was reminded of his own pain. Loss of status, loss of livelihood, office, prestige, all the trappings and power that came with the office.\par
"Well, the CDC now examines graduation candidates. And faculty. We got examined every year.  I passed the first two times.  The third time they asked me whether praying for divine healing is presumption.  They hold that we should always pray for grace to endure suffering. I said that God was compassionate and there are times He desires to immediately heal.  They wanted an example of such a time.  I did not realize that it was even too late. But I pressed on and cited an example: my wife was sick with the flu, and so sick that she scalded herself when pouring herself a cup of tea."\par
"I remember that," one of them said.  But I should have looked more closely at his eyes.\par
"I prayed for God to have mercy and heal her," the man said.\par
"Did you add 'if it be thy will'?"\par
"No," I told them.  And they looked at each other.  I should have known, I was told, to always pray in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, and always 'if it be thy will'.  That was what I had been taught, they told me, lest someone think I am a Jew or a Mohammedan or presumptuous.  I said I viewed that as legalistic.  And so I was denied a diploma.'\par
"Sorry to hear that. "\par
"This hurts.  This is like a woman in labor, seemingly unnatural.  I think I was called to be a pastor, but it is like they denied my call, my significance, my everything.  A labor without fruit. Just enormous pains. Someone who has not gone through it cannot understand this rejection.  I am diminished, I have no future, I do not know where to go."\par
Keith, for the first time, really looked at him. "I understand how you feel.  I was - well, I was in the ministry, and this happened to me.  But it does not change the fact that God adopted you into His family, does it? And He is the one who promises a future, and shows us where to go. Certainly not the CDC.  I think they are doing immense harm to the Eppers.  Someday they will realize what they have done, and then they will groan like women in labor."\par
"I think you are right.  Thank you.  But what am I to do?"\par
Keith unlocked his car door and got in.  "Do whatever God tells you to do, and do it with all your might.  He did not set me over you to assign you to any one thing.  He does the assigning. If you want to stay here, and you are certainly welcome to, try something. If it does not work out, try something else.  You will wind up where you belong.  You may even see a need and start something that will be a blessing to many."\par
"I hope so.  Thank you, Doctor Berg."\par
"Elder Berg,"\par
"Sorry." And they waved each other off.  But the young man was still standing back there as Keith went through the old red gate, looking lost.  He had turned back towards the trailers by the time Keith drove out of sight.  Keith realized he had not even gotten the man's name. \par
Keith dreamed that night, a dream that he had repeatedly and found oddly disturbing. It often would linger through the next day.  He started in an olive grove and walked uphill towards a hill.  At the base of the hill there was the dark low entry into a cave. In front of this was a man of imperious bearing and clearly very learned: he had the look of the intellectual.  He wore a toga and held a wooden staff in one hand.  His beard was short and his shaved head bore a laurel wreath, which he was quite proud of and always seemed to be touching with his free hand, more as a way of pointing to it than as a means of adjusting it.\par
"Here comes a man now," he said, bending down and calling into the cave. There was some answer; apparently there were people in there.\par
The man looked at Keith and called down again, "I don't know him."\par
"What do you want?" the man asked Keith.\par
"Well I am rather curious about what is going on here."\par
Immediately the man bent down and called into the cave,"he wants to know what is going on."\par
"Well, why don't you tell him?" came back out of the cave.  There was general agreement, there seemed to be a number of people deep in the cave, away from the light.\par
"You will have to go into the cave first, and then I can explain it to you," said the man,"If I tell you out here, in the sunlight, you will believe what your eyes tell you.  In there, I will tell you what is to be seen."\par
"Quite right, quite right," came from inside the cave,"Plato sees things well. He has true sight."\par
Keith was surprised, because this scene only bore a passing resemblance to Plato's cave. But somehow they all convinced him to get down on his hands and knees and crawl into the cave. It quickly became dark, but Plato seemed to know where he was and told him not to step on so-and-so and he was about to put his elbow in Nathan's eye, so stop and turn, and there was space for him just ahead.\par
\line He sat down in the dark with his back to the cold stone.  His head almost touched the roof of the cave and his right arm was close to someone else's.  Keith said hello to him.\par
"Silence in there!" Plato said angrily,"You are to listen to me, not each other."\par
Nothing happened for quite a while, so it seemed like Keith had fallen asleep again and then there was this second dream, a long time later. \par
"What is happening outside?" someone called to Plato.\par
"Nothing," said Plato.\par
There was space to Keith's left.  Not far away there was a blank wall, and on it there was a faint light.  Keith could make out shadows, but he could not tell what they were shadows of.\par
"Don't look at the shadows!" Plato called into the cave, as if he could see Keith. "Listen to me! I know what is really happening!"\par
"What is happening?" Keith found the courage to ask this.\par
"Nothing," said the man,"Absolutely nothing."\par
This all seemed perfectly ordinary and fine; it was normal to crawl into a cave and sit there in the dark, and Plato of course knew what was really happening.  Keith was grateful someone so wise as Plato could explain to him and the others in the cave what was really happening, and to not pay attention to shadows.  Keith closed his eyes so he could not see the shadows. \par
A long time later, for it seemed he had slept again and this was a third dream, a light grew on the wall as if outside the sun was rising after a night.\par
"Is it sunrise?" someone in the cave called.\par
"No," said Plato,"Nothing is happening."\par
Keith smiled to himself. How foolish to go with your own thoughts when Plato could explain things! There was general snickering at the fool who thought the sun was rising when nothing was happening.  But the light grew brighter and brighter outside.\par
"Are you quite sure?" someone else called.\par
"Yes, I am," said Plato,"And I am busy right now, so don't bother me."\par
So they didn't.  And the light grew brighter and brighter, but because they were used to the dark, they could not see.  They all squinted against the light, which grew even more brightly and with heat. Then there was a roaring sound, and the feeling that the cave roof was close had left, and instead they were all sitting in open air, in the sunlight, in the cleft of rock in the hill, exactly where they had been, except now there was blue sky above us.\par
"You do not need Plato any longer," said the Light, for before them stood the Risen Christ in His glory, brighter than the sun. But he dimmed his light, and it was easy then for them to see. "I am the true light who has come into the world. Hear my voice. You do not need to be in such caves again."\par
Keith was deeply ashamed that he had crawled into the cave and had spent so much time listening to Plato, when instead he should have told them of this Light.\par
"You are forgiven," said the Lamb, "now go, feed my sheep."\par
And the force of the last was always such that he sat up in bed, trembling. It was two in the morning and the room was dark. He slipped out of bed as he always did with this dream, and took his Greek New Testament and read and prayed his way through the Gospel of John.\par
  \par
\par
    \par
\par
\par
That Sunday they had to drape the outside speakers that were on posts in plastic as a warm fall drizzle fell on the crowd gathered around the stage.  The stage itself, with the podium and most of the sound equipment, was inside one of the hangers, along with the sound booth. There was room for some but not all of the people who came and they sat out in the rain.  Jeannie had said they had fed over 6,000 people at breakfast.  More cars came in after breakfast full of expelled Eppers, charismatics from other denominations in hope of the Refuge City, or of miracles, people who were just curious about the place as well as some people who were indeed curious as people.  Keith had seen it all.  They were gathered together in a semicircle under their ponchos and rain tarps. The ground was so rocky that there was little or no mud, but there were puddles that you could unexpectedly discover, just deep enough that they would go over the top of your tennis shoes if you had ignored all the advice about wearing boots.  \par
Lukas led them in "I have forsaken all for thee," "I surrender all," and a number of other songs that the worship team had to wing, because none of them were what they had practiced.  This was fairly normal and they took it in stride. Lukas led them into undirected worship, where they adored the Lord, hands lifted high, most eyes closed.  There was a silence.\par
Then there was a very loud tongue from somewhere in the third row - Keith recognized the voice, and saw her. Mrs. Wittensham. He wasn't sure yet how to approach her. She always said the same thing, and it clearly wasn't an unknown tongue. He mouthed it silently behind his lips. "Wakiki- wakiki-oh Chicago - Montezuma - Chippewa-Minnehaha".  This was her fourth Sunday, about time to have a conversation with her about this.\par
There was another silence, waiting on the interpretation.  Hopefully someone would get it right.  How could this be legitimate tongues? How could there be an interpretation? But sometimes there was what seemed to be a wonderful interpretation for such tongues. And vice versa.  Much of this they did not understand.  Perhaps the tongues prompted not an interpretation but a prophecy? They could only lead with grace in proper order, which included a certain looseness to allow people to make mistakes with the gifts. Then came discipling, correction, encouragement, growth.\par
A young man with thick glasses nervously came up to the mike. Lukas nodded at it.\par
"This is what the Lord says. Shall I not forgive you? Have I not forgiven you for all things? For I am a God of forgiveness, who forgives. Let these things go and do not hold anything against anyone. Let there be healing in the land and I will feed you with manna, yes with both hands."\par
We see through a glass darkly, Keith thought. There were murmurs of assent.\par
Another young man with thick glasses came forward. He was confident in the word he had. Lukas nodded.  A line was forming.  Why did so many prophetic types have thick glasses?\par
"I say unto you this day, says the Lord, that there is freedom for the captive. Break off the bonds of captivity and fear and rejoice in Me, says the Lord, for I preach good news to the poor and blessed is he who awaits my coming, for I am returning, yes, I am returning soon!"\par
Why do they all have thick glasses? Keith wondered.  The next was an older woman.\par
"God says that he is restoring marriages here today and that you must reconcile, yes, you must reconcile with your spouse.  That is what the Lord is saying, and Susan, he is speaking it to you! A woman named Susan!"  There were some surprised sounds. \par
Lukas interjected,"Susan, if that word is for you, receive it.  But if your name is Susan and that word is not for you, just let it go by. If you have trouble with it, come up and talk to anyone on the prayer team after the service. And if your name is NOT Susan, and you have trouble in your marriage, take it anyway."\par
"I am not finished yet! Susan, you are in a state of sin! I have such a -" the sound was cut to her mike as two ushers helped her leave the area. They talked to her, as she was done. People liked to run on, and they could not afford it with this many people.  Keith was sure they were thanking her for being faithful with a word. Some people got angry. But it had been explained to them that this could happen and if they were unwilling, they had no business prophesying.\par
"This is what the Lord says, I see Israel scattered like sheep across the hills," said the next person, "But He says it is not a bad thing.  When gathered or scattered, take courage, trust Him, because He is the way and the truth and the life!"\par
The sermon had been preached. Wow.  That happened sometimes.  Keith had been trying to find his family in the crowd, furtively, when that word came forth, and he only knew it was a man with a deep voice.  He was gone by the time Keith turned around.  He made a mental note to ask Lukas who he was. \par
Lukas ended the time of prophecies and thanked those who were standing in line.  They were invited to come and share their words with the prayer team after service, as there simply wasn't time.  Keith could tell that was hard for some of them to take.\par
Offering, announcements, no trace of the Epper liturgy, then Paul got up.\par
"Steven here wants to give testimony."  Paul nodded down at him, and he slowly made his way up the steps, helped by two ushers.  He was not used to his crutches.\par
"I was proud," he said, "I thought I could claim Mark 16:18 and pick up a snake. I got bit and almost died.  I want to thank you for your prayers, because otherwise I think I would be dead right now.  And take the snakes seriously here, all of Paul's warnings.  The snakes in Snake Woods have been known to be lethal for over a hundred years and you can drop dead instantly. I was struck through the boot and only one fang penetrated, and that barely, and I was unconcious for three days.  I still have trouble keeping food down, because I am naseous, and it is possible I will have a big hole in my foot the rest of my life, unless the Lord heals me. Do not try to prove your faith by going down to Snake Woods and picking up a snake. That is presumption and displeasing to the Lord."  Steven continued to exhort them.\par
There was a feeling of unease, a danger in Keith's mind suddenly. What was it? He picked out a face, looking at Steven with extreme disapproval.  It was a man in the third row, a bearded figure with his hair parted, a man the same age as Steven.  Young people thought they were indestructible.  The man frowned and shook his head. Clearly he had not gotten the message.\par
Keith wondered what he had done, or what he was going to do. But the man sat there with his face darkened. \par
Paul preached, but Keith was drawn to this man. What was going on? Keith also watched the crowd, to see the reaction, difficult with all the ponchos and tarps.  It was steadily raining and some people had to move as low points were filling up. The same spots as had filled up on previous rains.  They needed to do some grading.\par
People took it in different ways, and after closing Keith went down and joined a prayer team .  He was talking to a man who had sold all to come here and had been here a day, and now he was supposed to go away? No, said Keith, and helped him hear better. Some distance away someone was loud and angry and glancing over he saw that the man he had spotted had come up for prayer.  He wanted to go over but a lot of people wanted to talk to him about the message.  He would have to talk Paul and Lucas later, and then there would be a long phone call with Jake, currently in Pennsylvania.\par
Keith found himself talking to many, many people.  Most were accepting of the word given and wanted reassurance and a listening ear, which he was happy to provide. He prayed with many.  He didn't get anyone responding with anger.\par
He noticed Ben, Steven's friend, come running back into the area where they held church and nervously look for something.  Keith knew something was very wrong.\par
"You gotta come quick!" Ben shouted,"I need - I mean-"\par
"Excuse me, I am terribly sorry," he said to someone,"there is an emergency I need to deal with."  He turned to Terry, his prayer buddy. Terry could listen well and he also gave good advice. "I have to go."\par
"Ben, what is wrong?"\par
"You know that guy who was so angry? He was shouting in the prayer line?"\line "I'm not sure who, but I have an idea. What is wrong?"\par
"He said Steven's problem was that he did not have enough faith. None of us do, according to him.  I last saw him walking towards Snake Woods."  Keith's heart sank.  He feared a casulty, and he never liked going anywhere near Snake Woods.\par
"How long ago?" \par
"Maybe twenty minutes by now.  I watched to see if he was really going that way. He was."\par
Ten minutes later Keith and Ben were in a truck. Dr. Herzenstube was in the back with a nurse and a medpack.  They kept supplies on hand at the services, in case they were ever needed. Now was the time.\par
They splashed their way across the rocky ground, unable to go very fast.  The rain turned into a downpour and they stopped and everyone got in the cab. They started up again.\par
Keith had to pick his way across the ground, which of course he had never driven on before.  Finally the rain let up, and he realized he had driven west.  He turned south.  Perhaps there was still time.\par
"Ben, what is his name?"\line "I don't know."\line "What do you know about him, anything?"\line "No. He showed up yesterday, I think.  Anyway I never saw him before then."\par
They drove along the edge of the tall grass, looking for someone hopefully not in it. Or someone standing in it.  They found a dark wet form not six feet into the tall grass.\par
"Hey!" they shouted.\par
He did not move.\par
Keith approached the grass and looked at the outlying trees, which had snakes he could clearly see.  There were snakes moving through the grass, large ones.  But they stayed in the tall grass. Keith fought back fear.  He would do what he had to, but he hated being anywhere near here.  He was not especially afraid of snakes, but there was every reason to fear these. Why were there so many? Someone had said they ate birds that landed in the trees of Snake Woods. \par
The rain came down steadily.  The tall grasses were bent but it would not be safe to enter.\par
"Do we have a rope?"\line Someone found one, and several tries later they had managed to loop it, lassoo style, around the man's leg.  The rope slid down and cinched.  He did not respond.\par
"Well, not standard medical practice, but we can get him out of there, anyway."\par
He was not a large man but it took two people to drag him out of the tall grass and onto the rocky soil.\par
"Blood," Ben said, and pointed.  There was a trail of blood going back into the tall grass.\par
"Stay back," Dr. Herzenstube said,"there might be a snake in his clothes or something."\par
Using a hoe they carefull flipped him over.  He was clearly dead, and one of the effects of the venom was the dissolving of tissue.  There was no way to tell how many times he had been struck.  He could not be recognized by now.\par
"I hate to do it, but we have to strip him," Dr. Herzenstube said, "we can't chance him carrying one of those reptiles. Someone else might get bit. One might be attracted to his body warmth."\par
There was one small snake they found, that the hoe took care of.  They put the snake's  severed head and body in a jar very carefully and wrapped the man's body in a tarp, together with his clothing.  Someone would have to go through it and see if there was any ID, and the death would have to be reported, and relatives contacted, etc.  Some herpetologist would be very interested in the snake.  They had antivenin available for rattlesnakes and other snakes in the area, but this was said to be a different subspecies.  \par
 Word quickly spread through the tent city of the death.  Keith wondered whether that or the sermon was more effective in getting people to leave.  He thought about whether they needed to put someone on patrol to keep people from going down there.  Hopefully it would not be necessary. There were already the Missouri Department of Natural Resources signs warning people to stay out.  Did they need to put up a fence? Why did people not listen to the warnings?  He was reminded of the sermon. \cf2\par
\cf0\par
"No room there for a snake to hide, and no reason either." Keith and Paul were looking at one of those strange mounds that stood scattered.  Most of the ones they had looked at had had any number of trees sprout on them, only to die a few years later.  Paul had knocked a few down and used the dirt, and had had a time of it: the soil was rocky and intermingled with countless tree roots.  After a few years the young trees would give it up and die, and others would try.  The trees would seldom get to be more than a few feet tall and sometimes were close packed - now most of the hillocks looked like pincushions with the closely spaced dead trees on them.  Sometimes a tree would succeed in living longer, but would finally perish.  They found no snakes on any of the mounds.  \par
"What did you think of the words that came forth Sunday?" Keith asked him.\par
"Well, we have to sift the chaff to find the wheat, it seems. I thought the last word was right on. I am not sure about some of the others."\par
"My thoughts," Keith agreed. \par
"I wish I could think of what to say to Mrs. Wittensham.  It seems like a scandal, that she would think 'Wakiki- wakiki-oh Chicago - Montezuma - Chippewa-Minnehaha' is actually an unknown tongue. I have told you before that I am concerned about this being a stumbling block."\par
"I understand your point.  It seems great foolishness.  God uses our foolishness - not that we should be foolish when we know better - for His purposes.  Someone told me that she was struck by Mrs. Wittensham's great faith in believing that is an unknown tongue. It was a real challenge to her, a humbling challenge.  She had come here mocking, just to see the fun, she said, and went away realizing that God was greater than she had thought. Because of that, she was open to God more than she had been, and less stubborn against His purposes in her life than before she heard the tongue.  Also consider that some might be thinking they have an interpretation when they actually have the prophetic word, one they would never have given if not for her quote foolishness unquote.  We always have to sift through words and judge them, and look for discipling opportunities in those giving the words."\par
"Grace intersects our lives," as Jake likes to say, "Paul replied. "Who can track the wind of God? I suppose someday people will be able to track the winds of earth, and the weather people will tell us the wind that was in Dallas will be here tomorrow, but more importantly, there are those untrackable mysteries in God."\par
"That is a lot of it.  As I said, in that last word the message was preached, as if in confirmation."\par
"Do you know who that was?"\par
"No. I was going to ask Lukas, but I haven't had a chance yet. A new arrival, I guess.  Hopefully he does not take his own advice and leaves before we can find him and get to know him a little."\par
"We need people who can hear from God like that.  Too many hear themselves only, or hear preachers.  The curse of stale water.   You also know there are one hundred ninety two people who are not leaving? It is a colony-in-formation: they want to build a village north of here, outside the area that has been scraped.  They are separatists, and already they do not mix much with those outside their group. "\par
"What do they do?"\par
"Some of them are from upstate Michigan, and they are dairy cattlemen. Others are from Texas, and they are beef cattlemen.  They thought this was a good place.  They also are all outcasts, for the typical reasons."\par
"It is amazing that people bought up the old Miller property. Half the county. That is big enough for more than one cattle ranch.\par
"Yep. Well, let's call Jake."\par
\par
\par
\par
 \cf1  \cf0\par
\cf1 A. Keith Berg, M.A. (University of Michigan), Th.M., D.Th.,  Episcopal Presbyterian Seminary in the US, the A. stands for Augustus but he does not use it, goes by Keith, sees . This stance got Bishop Berg is a 'mustang' as they call an elder who becomes a pastor. In his case he was elevated to the rank of bishop before he was tried for heresy for rejecting separatism and advocating charismata.  He is on the Council of 12 when it forms and is still there in 2017 although old.  At some point he rejected himself as a bishop or a pastor via retirement and reverted to being an elder,which he had preferred. As 'bishop' he was regarded as far more authoritative than the elders, a position he did not want to be in.  Jake Profim was regarded as bishop if anyone was and he did not want to create conflicts. In 2017 he does not do a whole lot, being old. \par
He is probably the most thoroughly thought out charismatic the Eppers have and he got involved deeply in the regulative and orderly side of charismata.  How to do things in an orderly manner but not quench the Spirit? That is the balance he seeks and has given much thought to. He did most of the counseling of granola Christians in the early days and was the focus for theological articulation and defense of the Ranch against such as the People of Praise, groups that would grow up and become aberrant. He would say that his strongest charismatic gift is grace, followed by discernment, then faith. That also corresponds to his view of the order of salvation.\cf0\par
\par
\cf1 Paul de le Grande gave a series of 'get out before winter' sermons - those with sick, those with the elderly, those with small children needed to leave and get decent housing before winter.  They could not advocate living in a tent there unless you were healthy and used to winter.  He dragged out Snakebite 1 to give his testimony about presumption and putting the Lord to the test. \par
and he commuted daily until the trailers arrived and had running water, sewers and heat. \par
He is from Ohio  . He is well read in the Fathers and remains good friends with elder Dennis of the Nicholls Epper church.  The Thursday Night Theological Circle continues to regularly meet, aside from weather and church holidays, at the restaurant on Main in Nicholls, attended by Dennis, the good bishop, and the Catholic priest, among others, something like the Inklings.  They read papers to each other and argue about them, respectfully and good-naturedly. \par
\cf0\par
\par
 \par
\par
 \par
}
 