{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 6 AM August 3, 1976 Profim Property\b0\par
"Thy will be  done, Lord," Joyce said. She looked at the clock. It was time to get the coffee on and make sure Roy woke up - he had a habit of turning off the alarm. They had a windup alarm clock because there really wasn't enough electricity where their tent was pitched.  It was a nice tent, with a limestone floor - someone had smoothed the limestone, so it was like having a limestone floor, and they had an area rug - two, actually, one for their side of the tent, and one for the kids.  The tent really wasn't too bad, if a lot smaller than their house had been but she was wondering what they would do in the winter.  She reached out and felt the thick canvas and was aware there was pre-dawn dew on the other side.  Even with a kerosene heater it would be really cold, and David was only four.  Small children had the hardest time in difficult situations.  She pointed that out to God in faith and trust.  She listened a second, and she could pick out the even, peaceful breathing of each of her four sleeping children. None worried about winter, each took each day as it came and trusted Mom and Dad to take care of them.  Now, Joyce-girl, there's an example for you! She smiled to herself and remembered...\par
They had celebrated the Bicentennial with fireworks in July, nearly a month ago now but it seemed like years.  It had been four months since the fireworks had ended with their denomination and the loss of Roy's job with them. Roy had written what he had written and the Committee on Doctrinal Purity had taken an objection to it, and he had refused to recant. He had been condemned as a stubborn and refractory heretic; he had lost his job with the denominational journal, as well as the perks like the house, and they had lost all their friends, as they were now "shunned".  How that was supposed to cause repentence or healing or reconciliation she didn't know. Now, they were here. She sighed, knowing she needed to leave her time, her intimate time with the Lord, and do the day. In the predawn light - the sun would be up in twenty minutes - she slipped on her boots, a long jacket and headed for the dining hall. Her kerchief was on to cover her dirty hair. Here no one was Madison Avenue, and she did want to be that way, but a girl is a girl. One must keep up one's looks. There were codes on what different kerchiefs were supposed to mean: single, married, widowed, grandmother, depending on culture: Dutch, Eastern European, Indian, Russian.  Hers meant she was an American woman with dirty hair and she didn't care what else it meant.  The subtleties of being Epper were bewildering.  She was American Presbyterian at heart, despite years of trying to master Epper ways.  They were foreign in so many startling oddities.  You would think you were talking to a normal person and then there would be this strange, startled, glazed look. Or they would come up with something when you had thought there was understanding, except there was none, sometimes. She could think of no examples. \par
It was surprisingly chilly. Sunrise was still twenty minutes away.   There were more tents than yesterday in the prelight of dawn. The stars were bright out here in the country, although they were fading as the dawn light grew on her walk.  She reached the dining hall and found the coffee makers were already on and people were drinking coffee, mostly men whose crews would start at sunrise and were getting an early start.  She smiled and left. When they had arrived, she had asked Jeannie what she could do to help. Only three months ago there had been less than ten people here. Amazing.  Jeannie ran the meals, and had schedules. Joyce was on lunch dishes every other day after the second shift.  They ate in shifts, there were so many people, and there was talk of opening additional dining halls.  Jeannie had probably added an early morning coffee making shift. Up until today people had simply been showing up to do it, and more than once she had set up a pot alone. \par
"Joyce? Schnurkkkk" she shook him again,"It's a workday dear," she said. The alarm was on the floor.  The kids were stirring.\par
"Right," he said. He got out of the pile of blankets on the cot and put his bare feet on the ground. Roy always kicked his socks off in the night, the dear,and he always made sure she had carpet where her feet landed.  He was such a gentleman, always thoughtful and considerate.  "Whooo," he said, "The ground is cold!" He looked at her. "Good time with God?"\par
"Always." Since that night when she was 15, she had spent from 3 AM to 6 AM with the Lord, without fail.  He met her then.  She had simply known He would wake her, and she spent that time with Him, praying, conversing, reading the Bible, meditating on it, interceding, listening.  It was not something she discussed with anyone because it was intensely personal, and she was afraid people would think she was strange. Roy thought it was wonderful, and it was their little secret. Except the kids knew. She did not think of it as a sacrifice but as an opportunity she looked to eagerly.  Nor did she in any way think she was unusual or superior or anything. She was a Christian, a wife and a mother. A lover of God, a follower of Jesus. \par
She thought about that night.  Pastor Thompsen had begun his Wednesday night sermon series in Matthew, in the genealogy of Jesus.  Her mind had wandered. But she knew that she had started the sermon as someone who was apathetic about God and more than a little skeptical, and at the end of the sermon her salvation was in Christ alone, the passionate lover of her soul. As far as she knew it had nothing to do with the sermon. Nor could she ever describe exactly how she changed her beliefs.  When, years later, she had read \ul Surprised By Joy\ulnone , she understood what Lewis was talking about.  He had been converted.  She had been regenerated, reborn, and had really had nothing to do with it except have it happen to her. Now her salvation was in Christ by faith, and she was walking that out.\par
Roy got up and stretched.  He unexpectedly kissed her, dirty and frowsy as she was, and then he went off to the men's showers.  When he came back, he sat down and had his own quiet time. It was only half an hour, but it was the only time he had alone with God, and it was precious to him. He did not begrudge his wife's time with God; there was no competition.  To each as God as called them.  That done, with the kids up and dressed by Joyce, they went to breakfast. \par
You never knew, thought Joyce, what God would provide.  The cooking and dining were like that, in fact everything was.  Paul de le Grande was sort of in charge, but he insisted that everyone let the Holy Spirit guide things.  He was only in charge to get out of God's way and to see that everyone else did, too.   God seemed to like the last minute, the almost-chaos, the almost-panicking and utter ruin, only to do something amazing at the last minute.  Sometimes the last second.  Some people had a lot of trouble with it, people who led very ordered lives.  Another type of very ordered life, a deeper one, was being imposed on some, a life of faith and gratitude if not visible and secure things.  They had never gone hungry, and meals were balanced, but you never knew what was going to be there.  This morning was bread and sausages, milk and potatoes.  God was always pleased, it seemed, to give them potatoes. She had a feeling Paul had no idea that his wife had scheduled people to work at certain times.  Jeannie was a planner and the only one who could buck Paul on this, and she did. But there were limits, and she had some, and there was a point beyond which she would not go.  Joyce had no idea what that point might be, and never pressed it.  Joyce had enough of her own business.  She had learned to see the world through the lens of Christ and look at what He showed her.  Many things were not shown her.  She had enough to deal with concerning what she did see and hear. \par
Some of the order and provision she recognized, as she recognized her scrounging had paid off.  People called her a scrounge, and she accepted it for lack of a better word.  More accurately, God directed her to particular places at particular times and something was there that she could bring back here.  \par
"You must have a lot of faith," someone had told her.\par
"No, just a big Savior and Lord," she had replied.  Faith by itself was worthless. You had to have faith in what was true, and then the truth took over. \par
It was summer.  She was wishing she could bring a school back, what with Christopher being ten and Janet 8, and Ben 6.  Little David was only four. God would provide, he always did, but sometimes she thought Paul de le Grande was a little too laid back about it.  Perhaps it was her lack of faith. Now she was being critical, she realized, and turned her mind back to more important things. \par
Roy watched the kids while she went to the women's showers.  When is faith presumption, and does presumption ever turn into faith? No, because faith is a gift of God, and presumption is a sin.  God gives us His gifts overflowing.  Paul was right, God would provide. God was good, and his timing was good.  She wished that was a little deeper in her soul. Paul was an opportunity to trust God more deeply.  Paul was to be treasured as a man of God, a gift of God to His people.  She was not in a position to change him, so she had to accept him as he was.\par
She had been raised Presbyterian, and they had respected their pastors and elders, but around here a few men were regarded as Anointed, almost put in the same category as apostles or something.  Roy had been bold and innovative in courting and marrying a non-Epper - his parents considered this a mixed marriage, with a Presbyterian instead of another Epper - and she found Epper ways still baffling, even after eleven, no, twelve years among them. Time flew so fast these days, with being a wife and mother consuming it. She'd been repeating her thoughts.  Bishop Berg, now, there was an anointed man. And Pastor Profim, although he was on the road almost all the time.  And Paul, although he was usually off building something.\par
Enough hot water.  That would be good.  There was currently a thirty second limit on hot water in the shower time, like everything else, on the honor system. It wasn't that bad in the summer but this was the Great Plains, and winter could be severe.  You washed one day what you missed the previous day unless you had a bucket, or you were willing to endure the cold water.  Sometimes Joyce did, and always felt intensely awake after washing her hair in cold water.   She usually covered her hair, not because it was a religious thing, but because it was disgusting.  She had to admit it was a little less disgusting than it had been. Something maybe about the natural oils and such coming into balance, free of shampoos and conditioners.  Hopefully by the time she was completely used to this there would be plenty of hot water.  She knew Paul de le Grande had been repeatedly told, respectfully, that there was not enough hot water. Not enough for a woman, if  enough for a man. They could wear their hair really short.  Hers was shoulder length and thick.  She suspected a lot of people would like to punch Paul with his "the Lord will provide." There, she was critical again. Did it bother Roy if her hair was so dirty so much of the time? She washed it twice a week in cold water, and it never felt clean to her. How could he still be attracted to her?  \par
Roy kissed her goodbye before he headed off to work in Nicholls. It was clear he loved her: he had a way that removed all her doubts and insecurities about it.  He had landed a job at \i the Nicholls County Courier\i0 .  It was a job, something less than being an editor, but the same skills were needed. He had worked in marketing before becoming editor, and it might get renamed \i the West Missouri Courier\i0  and have a wider appeal. In some ways it was more honest than \i the Epper Epistle \i0 had been.  \i The Epper Epistle \i0 was a minefield, what with everyone scouring every word for a meaning they could be angry about.  That is what Roy had said, and here people bought it to find out information about the town, but mainly to see their name in print.  School plays, band concerts, scout Court of Honors, bake sales, and if you were over 85 and had a birthday, there your picture would be.  Births and deaths, and some coverage of news outside of Nicholls.  Lots of classified ads.  She read it, although she knew none of the people.  For reasons that she did not know, there was never anything in it about what was happening out here. \par
"What are we doing today?" This was Janet, always on the go.  Joyce was startled.  They'd eaten breakfast, as a family, but her thoughts had been elsewhere.  Probably because it was the same as many other breakfasts.  Hot hash browns. Coffee. Milk for the kids.  The bulletin board with that advertisement about upcoming Membership Classes Postponed.  It seemed people in leadership were not in agreement about membership, whether it should be on a settlement model or a church-in-town model or something else, and so there were no contracts, no agreements, no clarity on assignments or generosity.  Probably Paul was waiting for his administrator to show up.  Until then, it was all self-organized, or God-organized, but not leadership-organized.  She worked on making her peace with that. It was working, after all, in a weird way. Not a way she was particularly comfortable with, but it was working. And she had to admit she had a role in it.\par
Christopher was already playing somewhere.  Ben was working on his shirt, which was somehow backwards and puzzling him.  And David copied his brother, and his shirt was on backwards. Joyce straightened out Ben's shirt while Janet took care of David.  Why were they messing with their clothes now? Had they gone to breakfast in their pjs? No, it was just Ben had decided he wanted a shirt with a cowboy on it, so there it was.  And there was the dirty clothes basket. It was not full, not nearly so, so there would be no trip to Laundry today.\par
What were they doing today? She listened as the tent was straightened, beds were made, the tent was swept out and the sides rolled up for better ventilation if the day got hot.  Boxes were put away under cots and the clotheslines with hanging clothes were made more orderly. Outside people were moving around. Nothing around here was locked.  She did not know these people, any one of whom was free to go through their stuff without them there and take what they wanted without discussing it with them.  Paul was a firm believer in God watching over things.  And she had heard no reports of anyone losing anything.  But it could happen.  She choked fear back and decided to trust God no matter what, in this situation, with this day.  Roy had thought he'd be working directly for Jake Profim, but that had fallen through. So now he worked at a secular paper.  Life wasn't always safe.  She needed to hold onto things with a light grip.  Much of what they had here had been given to them by others: Eppers were amazingly generous.  Tent, cots, rugs, even the boxes had been given, as had some of the clothes.  Most of what had been precious possessions had been lost in Michigan, sold so they could buy the car.  Wedding china, jewelry, Roy's hunting rife. Sold cheaply and the car bought expensively.  Naked we enter the world and naked we leave it....\par
"We are going up to Harrisonville," said Joyce, learning it as she said it.  Sometimes they did not go anywhere, but lately they had been going places more and more.  Most of the time she heard right; it was very seldom she found nothing on these trips. Food, tools, sacks of concrete mix, pipe, clothing, diapers, medicines; you name it, and she had found it and brought it back, or caused it to be brought back in case it was big appliances, generally the day before it was needed. It was really strange.  Perhaps God was just showing her that Paul was right about 'God will provide'.  The place always seemed to be about to collapse from the chaos, because Paul believed in everyone hearing from the Lord and following Him, only some people did not hear very well.  But everything was going well, actually, if you were patient and looked for the positive in it.  After four days of potatoes last week she had told a child to be glad there were potatoes.  There might have been nothing.  Maybe it helped understand how the Israelites felt about eating manna all those years. People thought she was at peace with this but there was a real struggle sometimes, like right now. A struggle for spiritual sight and hearing.  If there was spiritual blindness and deafness, surely there was sight and hearing.  She was so blind and deaf. Lord, eyes to see and ears to hear!\par
And there it was, after driving up to Harrisonville in a borrowed station wagon, where she had been before, and it was a grocery store. There was a delivery truck in the back, a big refrigerated trailer with DAIRY in big letters on it.  It was softly running.  There were two men standing next to it, having a heated argument.\par
"Park next to it," she heard,"And approach them."\par
"You kids stay here," she said. Then,"No, come with me." She did not know these men. A woman with kids was safer than one without. \par
The men were a little upset with each other.  The truck driver apparently had delivered more eggs than the manager wanted.\par
"Maybe you can take them to some other store"   This was his last stop.  \par
"Maybe you can sell them at a discount?  Right now, I am just wanting someone to take them off my hands.  You know my situation.  We counted pallets when we loaded, my boss and I, separately.  Five pallets. A record low. We counted them, the store manager and me. I delivered the other pallet - I have the signed statement from the other store, if you want to see it -  and you took four - the number of pallets you ordered. So where did this one come from? I am going crazy."\par
"That's your problem. Somewhere you messed up. I got the correct number. You must have shorted someone.  I got my four pallets"\par
"I have the signed receipt!  Are you sure you did not order these as well?"\par
"I counted mine. I can count to four.  Usually our order is bigger.  I can count to four, to repeat myself. Why would I short myself? And we have no room. It would be a crime to take them and watch them spoil. Usually I can take extra but not today."\par
Joyce approached.  The two men stopped arguing, something neither wanted to do in front of a lady with four children.\par
"Lady, can I do something for you?" asked the manager.\par
"Well, I am wondering if I could take those eggs off your hands," she said.\par
"They are his eggs," the manager said . "Not mine. I have my four pallets, as this guy and I both counted. Four.  I'm done here."  He walked off into the store and shut the door behind him. \par
Joyce turned to the driver, "How many eggs do you have?"\par
"I have a whole pallet of eggs - I guess hundreds of eggs. I don't know how they got there - I counted everything going on my truck and everything coming off, and there is still this one pallet of eggs.  I was hoping he would take them, but no.  I don't know what to do - I hate to think that I will have to dump them.  I can't take them back.  It would make my boss look bad. He counted them personally before I left. We had five - only five pallets.  I delivered one already and the manager here took his four.  And I still have one left over.  I can count to five. Do you think I can't count to five? "\par
"I can take them," said Joyce. "I know a lot of people who will appreciate them."\par
He looked  at her and at the kids and at her station wagon.  \par
"That would be great," he said a few seconds later.  And so they loaded the eggs into the back of Joyce's borrowed station wagon.  They had to take off the bindings to do so, and in they went.  There was just enough room for the last carton. The wagon was cooler with the eggs. \par
"Thank you so much," said Joyce.\par
"Yeah.  I have no idea how this happened."\par
 "The one who multiplied loaves and fishes can multiply eggs, you know."\par
"Who is that?" \par
"Jesus."\par
"Oh, yeah, right. Jesus.  I'll be seeing you lady. Tell him hi from me."\par
\par
There was a long line of cars going back into the property. So many people!  Why? These could not all be ex-Eppers, could they? Roy had said something about a charismatic revival going on, so maybe they were here for that.  Joyce wished she kept up a little more with what was happening around her.  Jimmy was directing parking, after they finally got through the old red cattle gate. Up at the other end, so far now that she was not sure who it was, someone else was flagging people into spaces. \par
"Hi, Mrs. D," he said,"What do you have today?"\par
"Eggs," she said, pointing her thumb back,"The Lord is good."\par
"Amen, well, you just go right on through to the dining hall.  It is getting pretty parked up though, but everyone should recognize you.  Paul de le Grande was looking for you. He is greeting people right now.\par
Maybe she could ask about the hot water, respectfully. He probably wanted to know what she had found. \par
Really getting parked up.  At least there was still access to the dining hall, although parking went on past the houses in double rows.  Hundreds of people must be coming today. Hundreds.  And there were already thousands of people here.  Here was the dining hall and there was Jeannie - Paul's wife.  She came out and up to Joyce.\par
"Good morning," Jeannie said. She looked at the station wagon full of eggs and kids. \par
"Good morning," Joyce returned a smile.  Jeannie had seen her coming and four teenagers helped her own kids unload the car.  While they did so, Joyce and Jeannie talked.\par
"There are a lot more people coming," Joyce said,"the road is packed - it took me twenty minutes in the line this morning."\par
"Yes, I saw that.  We had hundreds of people show up yesterday and hundreds today. it has been like that. "\par
"I don't know how you manage. Pardon me for saying so, but it seems like Paul does not want to organize anything. He says the Lord will provide."\par
"Don't I know it, don't I know it! Well, you know what else the Good Lord provided?"\par
"What?" \par
"Schedules, and the ability to plan. I love him, but Paul drives me CRAZY sometimes. He is happiest when he is working alone. He did not want to be running this, and he won't run it. He won't make an Ishmael, he says. He won't be presumptuous. God will provide, he says. Well, pray God will provide someone with the gift of administration before someone breaks Paul's nose.  This situation is beyond anyone. No one expected it and no one know when it will stop or how much to do. But we have to schedule the meal prep, cooking, dining, and cleanup or no one would eat.  God is providing, but it is not manna falling from the sky. It is many people - people like you, you and your gifts - you are not alone , you are not the only, pardon me, scrounge - and other people buying things, and people sending things.  Paul says wait on the Lord. And God IS providing. But meantime folks gotta eat. If you will excuse me, I need to get back." Joyce nodded. She wasn't the only one feeling this way.  Perhaps it was widespread.  Something was wrong, and it was in Paul's leadership.  Something to bring before the Lord continually until it was resolved. \par
 The eggs got unloaded and they would have eggs for the next several days.  Many other people would bring food - providing for the place was on God, not on her, and it was remarkable how God would lead and feed.\par
She walked back, kids in tow, part of her in intercession, and realized they would have to start parking cars elsewhere. There simply wasn't enough space.  There was a narrow aisle, big enough for a big truck, but there must be hundreds of cars. Hundreds.  What was God doing here? She didn't know. She focused on Him more than on His plans as a general rule.  She remembered the warning against excessive and idle curiosity.  Roy had wanted to come here, to this place she had not paid much attention to, founded by a preacher she had not paid much attention to. She trusted Roy to hear from God. God was in it, right?  He was in everything, over everything, everywhere at once, and outside it all, too, watching, separate from His creation yet sustaining it.  Had all these people gotten into trouble with the CDP? She wished she paid more attention to things around her.  Home and kids kept her busy. There was something to do with what was being called the charismatic revival, some kind of neo-Pentecostalism.  She didn't know a whole lot about it.  She never read the \i Epper Epistle\i0 , even when Roy was the editor.  He kept his work at work and never brought it home.  They both liked it that way. \par
Cars on both sides, closely parked. Only this narrow lane for cars and trucks to come up, and people like Joyce were walking along the sides. Up ahead a car had stopped in the lane.\par
Now there was some honking going on.  The five women inside the stopped car had gotten out. Then Joyce could not see them because of all the people walking. When Joyce came closer, they were all down on their faces, kissing the ground. This was astonishing. Weird.  Eppers tended to be extremely reserved.  These, definitely, were not Eppers.  What, then, were they? They didn't look like Presbyterians, either. \par
Joyce watched, open mouthed, as one of the women then got up and struck a theatrical pose. "Thus says the Lord, this is the promised land, the new Jerusalem! Here, sisters, the Lord says we shall be free!" Ooohs and aahs came from the four on the ground. \par
"Lady, you are blocking the road. Please move your car," said Jimmy when he came up to them. People were honking behind the stopped car.  There was a long line.  And a lot of space ahead of them.  \par
The five got up and formed a circle, hands held tightly, excited, and started praying loudly in tongues.\par
"Excuse me," Jimmy said again," and he turned and hopefully looked at Joyce and other people, looking for someone in authority. Joyce shrugged back at him, as if to say, this is your problem. He looked at other people but got no help. This was his job, after all. He would have to learn that.  Who was she, anyway? No one in authority.\par
He kept trying to get their attention. Finally the leader turned to him and said,"do not mess with the Lord's anointing. It is all over us." And there was more tongues, backed by more honking.  Other people had been speaking in unknown languages.  Roy had told her it was the gift of tongues, the ability to speak in a language you didn't know. Joyce spoke to God in English and she saw no need.  Roy had tried to explain their thinking, but it just sounded strange to Joyce. And here they were all praying in tongues over each other, no one interpreting. Very odd,she thought.  As Joyce listened, she heard, like two people speaking at once,  both the 'strange language' and along with it some English:  "I am spiritually proud. I am off the deep end. I am wacko. Wacko wacko. I am spiritually proud. I am off the deep end. I am wacko. Wacko wacko."  Was this her imagination or could that be the interpretation? If so, she would only share it most reluctantly.  She prayed for them silently as she walked along.\par
Were there really people like this?  Joyce had seen enough to say yes.  She tried to avoid them when she could, especially the 'parking-lot prophets'  who always seemed to have a word for someone.  \par
"Lady, if you don't move your car we will have to ask you to leave."\par
The leading tongue-talker, a tall imposing woman, turned to Jimmy and looked down her nose at him. "I see you have the mantle of authority. Very well, we are the Lord's handmaidens." The others gave Jimmy dirty and judging looks and one muttered something about "interrupting the flow of the Spirit".  They followed the parking attendants' directions and finally parked.\par
Joyce went to return the car keys to the owner, but he was not in his tent.  She was looking for him when suddenly a voice boomed out -\par
"Where is Blessed Paul? And the Prophet Jacob?" She pronounced 'Blessed' with two syllables.\par
"You mean Paul de le Grande? He is greeting newcomers. Over there.  And we don't call anyone Prophet Jacob. I think I know whom you mean, but he's not here.  I think you mean Jake Profim."\par
"I see in the Spirit that the Lord has allowed His prophet to delegate the work of building the Refuge City to the seventy, like unto Moses."   Joyce did not know what to say to that. She saw Paul and pointed him out.  She fully intended to go in some other direction. \par
But Paul her and waved Joyce over.  He was shaking everyone's hand in the long line - happy you are here, praise be to God, glad you are here, asking names, wishing he could talk longer, would be by later, the tents are over there, find one, dining hall over there, watch out for snakes,  ask the Lord what he would have you do - over and over to people as the line moved slowly along.  \par
"And what dd the Lord bring today?" he finally said, when she was close enough.\par
"Eggs."\par
"Oh, thank you Father. Eggs.  God is good.  And would you happen to have any steel rods in that hanger of yours?"\par
"I picked some up last week. You mean as in spare parts for a rock pick, or like reinforcing rods for concrete?  We have both. Both from last week.  Some number four coated deformed rebar, if I remember correctly."  It had sounded funny and she remembered what they had called it. The kids had run around saying "Number four coated deformed rebar! Number four coated deformed rebar" and giggling until they tired of it.\par
"I meant the spare parts. A rock pick broke today.  They are cutting more latrines. I cannot be everywhere."  He seemed genuinely sad.  Joyce knew he wanted to all the work himself, to be everywhere. But there were simply too many needs.  People had self-organized into teams. That was Paul's laid back style: no imposed order.  Some people were working on the houses, some on water, some on latrines.  She had wanted to be angry earlier, but that was gone. Maybe an after-effect of the intercession. Maybe God's provision of grace.  He didn't need a broken nose. She really liked Paul, after all. \par
"Which rock pick?"\par
"I don't even know. Amram would know."\par
"Anyone working on the hot water?" Joyce asked hopefully.\par
"I am a boilermaker," said the next person in line, "I have worked on industrial hot water systems. I am also a licensed industrial plumber, you see." \par
"There you go," said Paul happily. "God provides! His providence is merciful! We can use more hot water. After you get your tent set up, find how to fix it.  People are working on the water system. You will have to find them. I am sorry I don't have time to give you any more direction.  The Lord will. " The man nodded, glad there was work, if a little challenged by Pauls' attitude. \par
Paul told again the story of the Hanger, which had replaced the first buiding he had called the Hanger.  God had led Joyce to get old B-52 hangers from Whiteman Air Force Base, and they were now in a neat row south of the living area.  The contractor who had the demolition contract discovered he had nowhere to go with them, and they wound up here.  He had even been willing to reassemble them.  Now the different bays served as workshops, storage, even church. \par
He has no idea about this place, Joyce thought, on the way to the Hanger, the first in the line and seemingly the largest, although they were all supposed to be identical. They were all hangers, but this was the only one called the Hanger.  There had been another large building in the same place that had been torn down for some reason that Joyce didn't know. It was a huge building, now half workshop, the other half her junk pile, all the stuff she had brought or found but they did not have use for, yet.  Her half had a long line of appliances as you entered, mostly not working, as well as well pumps, reinforcing rod, bags of cement, bolts of cloth, boxes of clothes, supplies of paper, empty glass bottles,shelves,lumber, plumbing supplies, flooring, roofing,  tools, clocks, radios, television sets: everything she had ever had pulled out of a ditch around here, whether easy chair or couch, bed or cabinet, dishwasher, washing machine, and tires, dog houses, can openers, cans of food,  you name it. She had forgotten so much of what she had hauled in here in the last month. Some of it she had brought.  On the way here their new car had broken down and they had arrived in two huge tractor-trailers full of junk.   There were narrow aisles, but everything was where God told you to go and get it. It was that simple. When she needed something, she would pray, and He would guide her to where it was.  That was how it was organized.  Stuff was put where He told her to put it.  And then she got it from where He told her to get it.  She didn't bother about anything else. There was a mezzanine over part of it with more stuff.  The way things were going, that would not be the only one.\par
The other half of the hanger was a workshop.  Here Amram Boom fixed everything that needed fixing in his area, with people assisting, and there was a sewing shop, for want of a better term: tents were being sewn from canvas, and cots were assembled. People would wander in for a while and work, then wander out, and other people would come in and do the same.  They were not Eppers, who would have started before dawn and been at it all day, only stopping briefly for lunch.   At this rate they would need another building.  And in winter?  God would provide.  Perhaps he would provide some planning around here.  Paul was the most anti-planning person she had ever come across, but somehow, for now anyway, it was working.  You could not tell him it wasn't working, because it was. Perhaps Paul was hearing God in this much better than she was. Since she was not in charge, that was probably true.  Why was she being so critical today? She dealt with it again.  Some things were like that: they kept coming back and would not take a hint. She could not recall ever getting any insulation.\par
On the way back she passed where Paul was greeting people. The five women were now in line and singing in tongues. Two of them were doing little dances, holding what looked like little swords.  Roy had explained that these were based on Psalm 149 'and a two-edged sword in their hands' when she had seen women in the back of the Sunday assembly dancing with them during worship.  It looked like they had been throwing oil on each other.\par
"Sister," the leader called to Joyce,"the Spirit of the Lord is upon you."\par
"That is a nice greeting," Joyce replied, although they were farther away and louder than she would prefer for a conversation," Well, let me think of one. Grace to you and peace!"\par
The leader said,"the Lord has told me there would be mighty Christian warrior women here! The Lord says you are a mighty instrument in His hand, and blessed is the fruit of your womb!"\par
"Thank you.  These are my children.  But I am only the handmaiden of the Lord. His strength is in my weakness." She was reluctant to introduce her children. Something was off here.  Others in the line knew it. They got some real cases sometimes. \par
"The Lord has called me forth from a far country, and has called me to enter this land," the woman said,"He will raise up a mighty host in this place, a mighty host of praying women. Join me, sister, join the mighty host of prayer warriors the Lord is bringing up in this place to usher in the New Jerusalem, the refuge city, the city of joy and miracles and healing. Taste and see that the Lord is good!"\par
"Thank you. I suggest you talk to Paul de le Grande.  That is him.  Tell him of your plans.  But if you will excuse me, I need to get my children home."  Joyce smiled and collected her children and began walking away.\par
"I am Joyce Alt!" the woman called to her,"Surely you have heard of me.  I have the gift of prophecy and the gift of leadership for women, and an anointing for intercession! Come join the mighty army of women!"\par
Joyce Alt continued declaiming while they were still in sight. Apparently someone closer had gotten her attention.\par
"Mommy, who is that?" this was Ben.\par
"Her name is Joyce Alt," Janet informed Ben."That is what she said."\par
"Aside from that, I do not know." Joyce said.\par
"Mommy, she has the same name you do!"\par
"Yes. Yes she does.  Just like there are many people with your names.  But that does not mean they are you, now does it?" \par
There were various no's.  Joyce had a feeling she was not done dealing with Joyce Alt.  Strange people were showing up, but that was the first time she had had to deal with one of them.  And this one had four female friends. It was like a pack or something.   Sometimes these small groups of women - it seemed to be more of a feminine thing - reinforced each other and acted oddly.\par
\par
Lydia Pol caught up to her later. Joyce and her kids were taking a bunch of pots from her scroungings to one of the new dining tents, assisted by a long line of other people also carrying things Joyce had pulled out of her collection.  Lydia took two pots and walked with her as their children trailed them,  all carrying various things, except for David, who wanted to be carried and was hanging onto Joyce's right thumb with all his might.  Joyce was thinking about this, giving away what she was carrying and picking him up.  The old balance between nurturing and spoiling.  She did not want spoiled, soft kids, but she also did not want to tax them beyond their strength. He was good for now, and the walk would get him ready for a nap.\par
Lydia broke in. "Did you hear about the Women's Bible study today?"\par
"No. I wish I had gone. Priorities.  I got involved in setting up the new dining halls, hauling stuff. I need to prepare for the women's meeting tomorrow, anyway.  They want me to speak again."\par
"Well, there were these five new women.  One interrupted Mrs. Berg very rudely and said that 'the Lord was calling us women to rise and go on a prayer walk' instead of doing our study as we usually do."\par
"Oh," said Joyce.  She almost asked if had been  Joyce Alt, but that would have been uncharitable.\par
"I see you have met her. From your face and silence. Of course Mrs. Berg could handle it, and did with poise and dignity, but Joyce, well, Joyce could use prayer, I suppose.  Did you know she left her husband and kids to come out here?"\par
"Really," Joyce said.  This was turning into gossip, if not there already.\par
"Mrs. Berg and the other ladies told her she needs to go home."\par
"That sounds like wisdom. Is she gone?"\par
"No.  She said God called her here.  She went off on her prayer walk and took her friends with her."\par
"I assume Mrs. Berg will talk to the right people to get this resolved. Why are you involving me?"\par
"Because she is looking for you."\par
"How do - why do you say that?"\par
"Someone told her your name.  You do know that some people think you are some sort of super-Christian?"\par
"Well, I am not. Not even close."\par
"She had heard of you before, she was impressed, thought it was you."\par
"I did speak at a women's meeting, once, but it was nothing much, just a little meeting.  And the meetings here  - well, I just keep to the basics, nothing, new, nothing spectacular or emotional.  Just the good old Gospel.  No sensationalism.  Nothing to write home about. I can't help how people react.  Some people seem to be looking for a super-anointed leader or something.  They need to look elsewhere.  But I don't remember her.  I think I would. I try to forget about that meeting.  I don't like the spotlight. 'Moths are attracted to lights', as somebody said, somewhere.  See how well I quote? What a great speaker I am? How erudite of me? Hardly. Let me be a good wife and a mother and a daughter and a sister, O Lord. That is more than enough some days."\par
"Well, it got written up, you know, that 'little meeting', in several charismatic publications. You are supposed to be in the forefront of the charismatic movement among Eppers.  And the meetings here, too, have attracted some attention.  Some people think you are a charismatic celebrity of some kind.  I read the article on you in \i Charisma\i0 .  You know, the one you refused to be interviewed for."\par
"Well, I have not read any such thing, not that I would.  And I am no such thing. I am a Christian and a wife and a mother, and I certain value humility and pleasing the Lord over being some supposed leader that I am not. I want to lead a quiet life, not be some superstar."\par
"People admire your humility."\par
"That is funny. Ironic. Now, why am I being the topic of conversation? Please let's change the subject. Have you thought about what you are doing about school this fall?"\par
"No. Paul says God will provide."\par
"Well, the Nicholls schools are very good. I am thinking about enrolling my three oldest there."\par
"Really?"\par
"Yes, really.  This is August already and I need to think of their education.  And I am concerned about winter, I really am.  We came here from the UP, in Michigan, and I know what winter is.  They have bad winters here, I have heard. I read 'The Long Winter' to my kids not so long ago and it is in my mind.   Nicholls has some rentals, I have seen it in the paper, and Roy could walk to work if he wanted to. Everything convenient."\par
"Oh, Joyce!  The 'settlement' model is that we do everything here, on site, with each other. That we do not go outside.  I suppose, from the discussions around here, rather more heated than I would like, that the 'Reformed model'  is that we do not regard schools and other institutions as the work of the church,but as work done by Christians.  I am not sure I follow that exactly.  My sympathies are with the settlement model.  I know there are those here who favor the Reformed model.  It is a point Mike likes to argue about.  I suppose we need to figure out what we are doing here.  Settlement or Reformed or whatever.  It is apparently not something the leadership has resolved.  But I am concerned about your putting your kids in Nicholls schools, your leaving, your example to the rest of us.  Are you saying that we should all move to the town? It is not big enough, anyway.  What are you saying?"\par
"No, I am not giving up on this place.  I think there are enough people here for a school.  But we - and I do mean we - need to consider the fact that most of us are in tents, and winter is coming.   Not yet, anyway.  Probably never.  I would suggest you - we all -  earnestly entreat the Lord for an administrator.  Paul is a good man but no administrator, as he quickly admits."\par
"Ain't that the truth!   Not to disparage him, but an administrator has that charism.  He's like a public administrator, negotiator, diplomat, publics works administrator and coordinator all rolled into one.  A rare gift, but every successfull settlement has had a good one. I imagine a poor administrator could destroy a settlement.  Paul is probably wise not to -  God has given Paul great gifts, but he will admit not that one.  He is waiting for God to provide an administrator, and why should the administrator have to reverse his decisions? You have heard him say it, so it is not gossip.  Well, I will add that to my prayer list. Everyone has their limits, and he is, the dear man, beyond his.  I think everyone, including him, knows this."\par
"We only know we are walking in God's will when what we are doing is beyond us," Joyce replied.\par
"I like that! Do you have a source?"\par
"Not really, I just thought it.  We do not live in our own strength. Maybe I heard it somewhere."\par
"It's true though. But how would moving to Nicholls be doing that? Wouldn't that be giving up on some level?"\par
"No, I think it would be prudent. Staying here would be foolhardy. This little fellow would have a great deal of difficulty here in the winter."\par
"Are you sure you are just thinking about it?"\par
Joyce smiled,"I am thinking it out.  I think I will talk to Roy and see what he says. Your kids are older."\par
"Yes, they are.  And we are from North Dakota - we know about winter.  I don't like the idea of going through a winter out here in a tent and eating in an unheated dining hall. And the showers? Oh, my! I will talk to my man, I will.  And you are right, there are no schools being spoken of.  I suppose I could home school."\par
"Some people are home schooling.  I just don't think I would be a good teacher. I would want to give them all A's, all the time.  I know home schoolers get together, and they tend to act more like adults than other kids their age, which is a good thing, but the effort is daunting."\par
"I'll quote you back to you,'We only know we are walking in God's will when what we are doing is beyond us,' Joyce Dunbar.  Maybe I would home school. I need to do some thinking and praying."\par
"Well, if you don't know, you DO need to do some thinking and praying."\par
"Well- yes -"\par
They were interrupted by a pickup truck coming up from the south, honking insistently.  In the back a man was lying with his foot  down - his leg was horribly swollen and his boot had been removed. On the side and the hood of the truck was the red cross showing that it was being used as an ambulance. Someone else was with him, helping him stay low, stay calm, stay covered under a blanket.   \par
"What happened?" Someone called out.\par
"Snakebite," the attendent replied, and turned back to his patient. People stopped and raised their hands and prayed for a minute, some silently, some out loud, some in English, some in other languages. \par
The pickup truck beep-beeped its way northwards.  The Profims had turned their house into a fully-equipped medical clinic, complete with hospital beds and a fully stocked pharmacy. Joyce didn't like to mention her role in equipping it, but there would not be much there. She had even found Dr. Herzenstube.  Everyone called him that, after the doctor in "Brothers Karamazov", because he liked to say "I can make nothing of it!" in a German accent to his patients. Everyone laughed when he said it, and most people didn't know his real name, which of course was on his license hanging in the exam room. He also slept in the house, which was off limits unless you were sick or injured or needed medicine.  There was also a pharmacist and a pharmacist's assistant living there.  The sick had also taken over the other houses - one house had several people in wheelchairs and their immediate families.\par
Joyce thought you would know by now.  You were warned of snakes when you got here, everyone wore boots, the grass was kept low, and most of all you stayed out of the fenced area around the old farmhouse, and even more than that you never went down to Snake Woods, which had a very evil reputation.  It was the only really wooded area for miles and birds would come and rest there, and many of them would be eaten by the snakes.  They had a more lethal than normal venom, it was said, and stories were told of people being struck and instantly dying.\par
"I hope it wasn't a Mark 16:18" Lydia said.\par
"Me, too." They were all warned about presumption regarding the snakes, and there was the possibility some fool would claim it and go down to Snake Woods and try to handle those snakes. \par
"God have mercy anyway," Lydia continued. \par
"Amen," Joyce responded.\par
"Not just about that," Lydia whispered,"here comes Joyce Alt." \par
There was no escape, not with twenty or so people following her, all with posts and pans and cooking equipment like line of Himalayan sherpas.\par
The sherpas trudged towards their final destination, but Joyce Alt and her friends formed a line.\par
"Oh, Lord," Joyce said, "Spare me this. But not what I want."\par
Joyce was forced to halt  or walk over the line of women. Joyce Alt went down on her knees in front of Joyce and kissed her shoe. Her friends also kneeled.\par
"The Lord has told me you are the great Joyce Dunbar, the mighty handservant of the Lord!"\par
"Well, I am Joyce Dunbar. Will you get up, please? This is embarrassing!"\par
Joyce Alt did not move.\par
"I am your humble servant," she replied, ignoring the request,"the Lord has told me you have a word for me. Speak, and I will obey it! Let us release the anointing all through the land and set women at liberty everywhere with the glorious gospel!"\line\par
"Will you please get up?" Joyce Dunbar said firmly.\par
Joyce Alt got up but was still kneeling.\par
"Will this do?"\par
"This is embarrassng. What do you want?"\par
"The Lord has said you will release a word of prophecy into my life. The Lord has said it is a word of blessing.  So I ask you, what is this word that the Lord has given you for me?"\par
Joyce Dunbar was about to tell her that she had no word, nothing at all, never had, never would, didn't have any such gift, that this was ridiculous, when a clear, sharp, unmistakable thought came into her mind.  She recognized the Speaker.\par
"Well, Joyce Alt, I am not used to personal prophecy.  I would feel better and be more comfortable if we found Paul de le Grande and, say, Bishop Berg, and I gave you the word in front of them, if I have one then, for them to judge and confirm or deny, and give counsel if needed."\par
"I knew you had a word for me. I knew it. That was the Lord, telling me you had a word."\par
Joyce handed her pots off to someone else and Lydia became first sherpa.  The line of women parted and off the line went to the new dining hall.\par
"When I am done with this I'll be back at the Hanger," she told the line as it passed. Sherpas nodded. Some of them were carrying heavy things, like cook stoves and tables. Why didn't we use a truck? Joyce suddenly asked herself.  Well, we can find one for the third dining hall. there must be one around here somewhere.\par
The two Joyces, the four women and the Dunbar kids went off to find Paul de le Grande.  They did, and amazingly, Bishop Berg was there.  He was no longer a bishop, having been laicized after his trial, but many still respected him and called him that.  \par
"Funny, we were just discussing -" Paul began.\par
"The Lord has told me Joyce Dunbar, the modern Huldah, the handmaiden of the Lord,  has a word for me," broke in Joyce Alt,"and I want you to hear it and confirm it, and listen to it, because I am sure that God will tell you the place He has for me here, in line with what he has shown me, in taking up the mantle of the womens ministry, and leading and speaking and guiding-"\par
"Excuse me, but I think it is only logical that you hear this word first," said the Bishop mildly.\par
"Well, I suppose you are right." she conceded.  She knelt down before Joyce Dunbar. Her friends stood in a row, softly praying in tongues.  It was clear they they were hoping for words as well and that this was a high and holy moment in their lives.  \par
'The modern Huldah'  felt she was no such thing, but maybe this would end this.  She had seen people 'do' personal prphecy.  She sighed and she took Joyce Alts's hands in her own. "I wish you would not do that," Joyce Dunbar told Joyce Alt.\par
"You mean kneel?" She got up, slightly perplexed.\par
"The whole religious shtick. That is what the Lord says. He wishes you would not do the whole religious shtick. That was the Lord saying to you, "I wish you would not do that."\par
"But I-"\par
"There is more.  You need to leave here immediately and go back to your husband and children and patch things up while there is still time. You have sinned against them. You need to do what I have called you to do. Be a loving and faithful wife. Be a good mother. Call your own mother, who is worried about you being out here, and tell her you are back."\par
"But I-"\par
"You need to submit to those in authority over you. You need to apologize to your pastor back home, and to some elders. God will tell you which ones.  You need to apologize to your husband and submit to him. You need to submit to those in authority in your local church. You need to cultivate humility, which is among the fruit of the Spirit, and stop focussing on the gifts and the spectacular."\par
"But I -"\par
"That is the Word of the Lord to you today. I am done here."\par
Joyce Dunbar excused herself to Paul and Bishop Berg, took her kids and headed for the Hanger, leaving the five stunned women with Bishop Berg and Paul de le Grande.  What happened next there was not her affair. Joyce really did not care to be put in the position she had felt forced into, but there it was. She had gone the extra mile. \par
Pickup truck.  When people got back from furnishing the second dining hall, she wanted to remember that.  She started thinking of what would be needed for the third dining hall, and asking the Lord where it was in the Hanger.  Pots, pans, plates, utensils, tables, chairs, cookstove, coffee makers, stoves, a commercial refrigerator - it was all there - only needed the finding, and that needed the Lord's guidance.  She would have to tell them where some of it was because it was too heavy for her and the kids, but by the time they came back, there was a good long row of stuff lined up, ready to go, outside the hanger.\par
"Who has a truck?" she asked. \par
Someone pointed. She turned around, and coming slowly towards her through the crowds was a delivery truck. The driver got out and said,"I thought you might need this."\par
Joyce smiled.  Beyond him she caught sight of Joyce Alt's car moving towards the exit. She could not help following it with her eyes for the minute it took it to go out of sight. \par
"God is good," she said,"He always provides."  The sherpas turned into truck loaders, very glad to not have to haul things to the third dining hall, which was a lot further away.\par
\par
 \par
\par
 \cf1\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\cf0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
}
 