{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red155\green0\blue211;\red0\green77\blue187;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 August 9, 1976 Profim Property\b0\par
CJ liked the dancing and the attention she got.  She was nineteen, after all, not sixty, like some of these women around here.  She had her figure,  and more than one boy had told her it was weaponized. She didn't like the outfit the liturgical dancers had to wear: they were stuffy and old fashioned- the word was \i modest\i0 .  God gave women curves and men to look at them. She liked to make the most of both. She was thinking about becoming a dancer, but she wsn't sure she wanted to lose her sense of just being an unattached, unknown person in the crowds who didn't need to explain anything to anyone.  Now this Christian Woodstock thing she had wandered into, it was something else, a little bit of everything.  You weren't supposed to, but you could get drugs or sex here if you knew the right people. She did.  You had to listen to the boring preacher on Sunday, but apart from that you could make new friends. A lot of people went to the meetings, morning noon and night,  which meant most of the place was deserted a lot of the time. There were a lot of lonely young men and she liked to keep herself entertained - easier away from all the people. If you were too obvious they kicked you out, but a lot was happening that the people in charge knew nothing about.\par
If you showed up for church and went through the motions and said "Praise the Lord" you could last a lot longer here.  Now she was at church, which now had so many people they spilled out of of the hanger and there were more people, a lot more people, outside than in.  CJ was sitting on the ground at the back of the crowd on a dry patch of gravel, with a tarp over her to keep off the warm rain. This was lousy, just plain lousy. She was alone, which was not her choice. Mike had told her last night suddenly, without any warning, that what they were doing was wrong, and had thrown her out of his tent.  They hadn't even done anything anyone would consider wrong, had barely kissed, and then she was outside.  She didn't have a tent, because there was always hospitality afforded her, as she called it, and so last night she had slept in the barn, in the straw.  She was still itching from that. She had not slept well because there were bugs in the straw, some of which bit. There were also animals of some kind moving in the straw - that freaked her out.  Mice, she hoped. But she wanted to sleep somewhere else tonight after that.  The rain was coming down.  This was miserable, she thought.  Why had she ever come here? Because she was drifting, and she had caught a ride, and then the guy had lost interest in her.  He wasn't even here any more, when he had learned it was not a new Woodstock, but she was here. She rummaged around in her memory for his name, but it escaped her.   It was a hard place to find a ride out of, because you had to explain what you were doing there.  And she never knew who was leaving.  She had thought about walking out to the county road and maybe hitchhiking, but that was dangerous.  She'd heard too many stories of what happened to good looking girls when they hitchhiked.  This was a dead end. She had no place to go anyway.  People would ask her where she was going.  Nowhere.  And she had no one to turn to. Her parents had long ago given up on her, because when she called she had just asked for money. The last time she had tried to call either one their lines were disconnected. Her brother was - where was he? He was older, he had gone to college, but she forgot where or if he had graduated.  She didn't really care. She had gotten into a pattern of just relating to one guy at a time. She had no use for girlfriends or men unless she could get something from them.  That was life, and it was a lot harder than she had ever thought it would be.  \par
There were people here who wanted to know what she was doing here, in an official way.  There always were.  So far she had dodged them and was always moving from one part of the huge camp to another, lost in the crowd as much as possible. Drifting.  Her parents had divorced when she was in junior high school,and she had numbly drifted into high school, until she had been expelled for bad grades.   She had drifted to Florida and lived on the beach, taking advantage of male hospitality, and then California, and then Hawaii, then Seattle, where it rained like this sometimes, and then Brian had wanted to come to this music fest here, only that is not what it was, so he left. Brian. Was that his name? Bob? Ben? Bill? None sounded right.  And he left her here.  She was still drifting, she decided. She drifted in and out of her thoughts repetitively and in and out of the sermon, which caught her attention at points.\par
The preacher man was talking about snakes.  You leave them alone and they leave you alone. All creatures live in harmony, she thought.  They were always talking about snakes. There was a snake in the Garden of Eden story and another snake or dragon of some sort in the book of Revelation, both the beginning and the end. Wasn't there another snake somewhere else in the Bible?  There were cobras in Egypt, she knew.  She had watched a tv show once about spitting cobras, with their hoods.  And there was Smaug, the dragon that Bilbo Bunny made friends with.  She had heard that and someday might read about the rabbits who went on an adventure with a magician and visited the elves.  Now the preacher was talking about winter.  Winter was cold.  Snow drifts. There, she was drifting again. People needed to be ready for winter.  Was that death or something? Preachers were always talking about death.  He was saying we all need to be ready. Well, duh, if you can plan past today. Duh. What if you can't do that, Mr. Preacher Man with all the answers? Her thoughts went back into her well-worn grooves. Maybe she could hook up with someone? Not here.  She realized the service was over, with a final song and people clustered under the stage getting prayer, and people were walking off in groups of twos and threes.  Few singles.  She had no place to go, no where to drift to. No'where' at all, except right where she was.  She was tired of drifting. \par
She was surprised that she was tired, too, of guys. Hook up, use, abandon or be abandoned.  She used to care so much more about other people. Now they were tools.  That bothered her less than it used to.  There was still something that was alarmed at how unfeeling she was becoming, but that alarm was quieter than it used to be.  But what else was there for her? Where else could she go? What else could she do?  And they were saying it was time to go elsewhere.  How?\par
She looked up at the stage deep inside the hanger and caught her breath.  Despite how far it was, she had made eye contact with one of the Church Ladies, an overweight sow with a bright artificial smile and a bearing that said she was stuck on herself.  CJ knew that she would waddle over and smile and say gooey things, mushy things that really had no meaning or sense to them. Truth had long been dead to her and words were just emotional containers.  Whatever she said would be neither here nor there. It would be a totally useless conversation, a waste of time.  But she had time to kill and waste. Too much time. She was nineteen, and there were many years ahead, probably. Long, empty years of drifting from one man to another, never really loving any one of them, never really being loved.  That was life, though. Maybe it would come to a quick, unexpected and brutal end.  That would be fine.\par
"Here she comes a-waddling," CJ said to herself. "Jenny, buck up and take it. You aren't going anywhere."  She felt deflated, like a football out of air.\par
The church lady had two folding chairs, which she set up, friendly like, in front of CJ. She gave CJ one of those incestuously stupid smiles that radiated hypocrisy and artificiality.  The church lady said down on one of the chairs. She overlapped it in every direction and it groaned, which CJ found amusing.  Fat Church Lady patted the other chair, a clear invitation. CJ groaned inwardly, wondering how long this attempt to save her was going to last.  The church lady would eventually either get tired and give up or angry at what a sinner CJ was.  CJ had played this game.  Sometimes she tried to shock by spectacular elaborations on her sins, making herself out to be more obscene than she was - she was actually a good girl, she told herself. Sometimes she just acted stupid, like she didn't understand what was being said.  But she really didn't want to play any games right now. The gravel also was getting wet under where she was sitting. She would have to move soon or have a wet behind. She had not gone into the hanger because it was easier to be anonymous out here, on the edge of the crowd, away from the main activity.  They stared at each other for a minute of silence. Neither was going anywhere.\par
"I think you would be more comfortable if you were sitting here," the Fat Church Lady said. It was a world's record for brilliant observations in CJ's book. It was walking into an ambush. It was even clearer the Church lady was going to get her saved, or try to.    CJ wasn't particularly interested.  CJ knew all the right words and everything and could pass as a Christian. Maybe she was one.  She might also play the whore or the idiot.  There was however the sense that she had nowhere to go, nowhere at all, like this was not a time for games.  But if God was out there somewhere, He was out there, a long way from her.  There was a distance to be kept: too close and He would no doubt talk about some of what she had been doing. But a chair was a chair, and better than gravel.  With a sigh she stood up and looked down at the Church Lady, who still had that idiot grin. God would never use a fat and stupid church lady to get through to her, if God wanted to. CJ could handle this one if she needed to. She felt safe. God, if there was one, was nowhere to be found. So, yeah, she had no guilt. No judge. Nothing was right and nothing was wrong. Everything was meaningless, so why not do what you want?  But she had run out of wanting to do anything. \par
"My name's CJ," said CJ,"But I also get called Jenny. Either way."\par
"Well, CJ, I hope we can be friends," the Church Lady said.  To hell with that, thought CJ. "Just call me Jeannie," the Church Lady continued.  CJ paused a moment and thought about whether to tell the Church Lady she needed to use the restroom, and then vanish. Her bladder seemed to be unusually empty, the traitor.  To her own surprise she didn't use the line. Her legs didn't move her anywhere.  CJ was just standing there.\par
"Ok - Jeannie," CJ said. What was next?  She slowly sat down on the chair.  Her right leg had been asleep.  Her jeans were still dry. Good.  Blood flowed back into her leg and it tingled. Jenny and Jeannie. Cute coincidence.  Maybe she could point out they were the same morally and insult her way out of this one.\par
"That was my husband, my Paul,  preaching.  He says he is not very good at it and most people agree with that, including me, but when he has a job to do he does it. He says he does it to make Jake Profim look good, which is a joke, as if Eppers joke.  Not that we are, anymore -. It is kind of hard sometimes to pay attention, you know?"\par
"Yeah," CJ agreed.  When was she going to get hit with the four spiritual laws or something like that? Usually people say the preacher was great even when he did a lousy job.  Telling people to leave was a lousy job.  \par
"I saw you sitting here and I thought to myself, that girl probably has no place to go."\par
Bingo, CJ thought. It must be pretty obvious.\par
"Well, my Paul has a meeting I just discovered, and I have no one to eat lunch with. What would you say to a bite to eat in town?"\par
"In town?" This was weird. There were tents they called the dining halls, and you could grab three meals a day here - sometimes odd meals, like all fruit or potatoes, but still three meals a day. Why would anyone go into town?\par
"Yes, I get tired of the lines sometimes.  That is my job, these dining halls, and Sunday is my day off.  I don't even go there. I grab food at our house and I also go into town. Let's get some cash and go, ok?"\par
CJ's stomach woke up.  "That is fine with me." CJ decided there was use here.  She might get more than one meal, maybe some clothes, maybe a bed for the night and she might even find something in the house worth pawning. A girl had to live. If they had a car she could be two states away tomorrow.  But then she had nowhere, absolutely nowhere to go.  So they picked up their chairs with a "I need to pick these up anyway, so would you mind?" from Jeannie. They walked to the big building and went in, putting the chairs with some other chairs.  Jeannie knew her way around and they passed through a door into the next hanger, which seemed to be a maze of narrow halls with tall shelves and turned corner after corner, like she knew where she was going.  CJ was amazed to see a huge pile of cash - dollar bills, fives, tens, fifties, hundreds and higher, several feet high, just sitting on the floor like it had been dumped there. Jeannie picked up a twenty and put it in her purse.\par
"Come on," she said, as it this was the way everyone kept their cash. CJ followed her, open-mouthed. \par
 "Why do they - why do you keep the cash in a pile like that?" CJ asked.\par
"It's an Epper tradition.  We- they call it a \i Menge\i0 .  Paul says the Lord will watch it.  It is a matter of trust."\par
"Does someone watch it?"\line "No, well, no one human, anyway."\par
"Has anyone ever stolen from it?"\par
"I don't think we know.  We don't keep track of it.  We use the money to pay bills, and people put money into the pile, and that is where the offerings go. If someone has a need, they are free to take money. So I am not sure anyone COULD steal from it. It would have to belong to someone for them to steal it, right? I mean, all things belong to God, so you would be stealing from God. Not you, CJ, but anyone. But then we all sin in various ways."\par
"Do you need some money?" CJ's eyes widened.  Jeannie leaned down and grabbed a handful of cash. "Here, take it."\par
CJ had a sudden fear, a terrible fear.  She was used to hiding her emotions, so she did not show it.  She had sinned in terrible ways. Her hand was trembling as she accepted the cash. And she had thought of robbing Jeannie and her husband.  She could not do this, not after this.  She straightened the bills. It was over five hundred dollars! Just like that!  What was Jeannie saying? Why is she talking about sin and giving me $500 at the same time? What is going on here? These people are really weird. But money talks and CJ listens.\par
"The Lord is always close to us, you know. His hand is not so short that it cannot save, neither is His ear so dull that it cannot hear."  CJ nodded as if she had been listening. If God is so close, why does God seem so far away. Why does it seem like her prayers weren't listened to. Not that she prayed much, for that matter. If anything, it was 'God leave me alone'. God probably didn't care, or wanted to punish her. Maybe by making her eat lunch with the fat church lady.  It was almost humiliating to be seen with her, but then CJ was hungry and Jeannie was paying.  And then there was the money, and maybe more to follow. Usually CJ had guys paying for meals.  This was rather awkward.\par
"Funny how it goes on, "Jeannie continued,"That is Isaiah 59. Do you know it?"\par
"I don't know the New Testament that well. Usually I stay in the Gospels in my time with God. Not the New Testament.  I hope to read it someday."\par
Jeannie gave her a look. "Isaiah is in the Old Testament, dear."\line "Oh, of course! How silly of me! I thought you said the Old Testament!"\par
"I said Isaiah. I did not say 'The Old testament.'"\par
"Well, I meant the Old Testament.  I said 'New' accidentally."  The lie lay there in all its ugly transparency.  CJ hated herself for saying it.  It was clear that Jeannie knew it was a lie but was looking sad, not angry about it.  Another friendship ruined.  Friendship? This was a friendship?   Now they were walking from the big building to the parking lots.  Jeannie was silent.\par
"Ok, I was lying, and you knew it," CJ said.\par
"Yes, I did know," Jeannie said softly and sadly.\par
"You didn't call me on it. You people are always calling me on things I do wrong."\par
"It is often better to let the Holy Spirit work than for me to get in the way. I find that prayer is more effective than confrontation.  Don't you?"\par
CJ didn't know how to answer that one.  They talked about the Holy Spirit a lot around here, but she had never figured out what they meant.\par
"You've been here three weeks now, a little lost soul. You have been troubled and outcast, separated from the life of God. People have noticed. I saw you come with that man, the one who left. And with other men. But it has been very lonely, I think, for you."\par
She hadn't managed to hide after all.  They had been watching.  CJ was suddenly very afraid.\par
"I know what you've been doing more than you realize."\par
"You've been...I mean, I suppose you have the," CJ used some profanity, which she thought would shock the Fat Church Lady.  She simply didn't respond to it. "So...you're going to throw me out? After lunch, I am supposed to hit the road and we never see each other again?"\par
"I am not going to throw you out.  I would like to take you in.  I think you are very unhappy and I would like to change that.  Tell you what: we are going to eat at a restaurant on Main Street.  After we eat I will go to the Ladies' Room and when I am in there, you can walk two blocks to the bus station.  It's in front of Nicholls Dry Goods. The bus will be here later this afternoon - this is one of the days they make a stop here, but I don't know when.  If you want to leave, you have enough money that you can go just about anywhere.  There is enough that you can go there and come back here, probably. And if you leave, I would like you to know that I would be glad to see you back here.  And I would be even happier if when I come out, you are still there."\par
"Well, thanks."  CJ didn't know what else to say.  This just made no sense, no sense at all. \par
Six days later CJ was sitting on Mission Beach in San Diego, watching the waves come in. She knew no one. She looked at happy people, happy families, people playing with dogs, happy couples, kids playing Frisbee. The beach was warm but the water was too cold, which had been disappointing. All that happiness made her feel isolated, even more alone. They had each other.  She had not hooked up with anyone because something had changed in her so that she was not looking.  She had been living a long series of lies, deceptions, untruths, and that did not appeal to her anymore.  She picked up a handful of yellow-brown sand and watched it slide out of her palm in a million pieces. That had been her life, like sand, a million little pieces.  She just kept thinking of Jeannie. Something about Jeannie was solid.   CJ had written "thank you," on a napkin before leaving. She had almost written "I'll be back", but decided against it.\par
"There is no place like home," she said, and wished she could click her heels and find herself in Kansas.  That crazy place was actually in Missouri but it held the only person in the world who wanted her around. These people here didn't know her.  All the guys had moved on. The one person in the whole world who wanted her around, it seemed, was someone she despised.  But then she despised everyone. She thought more about Jeannie.  Why was she so important now? Was she?\par
CJ wandered the streets, not knowing what she was looking for, ignoring the comments from the guys.  She slipped into the unlocked church.  It was quieter than outside, and cool. There were pews, which she found strange. She looked around.  She was alone, but not alone.  No people, but there was - what? There was a simple cross on the wall above a table that had been draped in a cloth.  The room was lit by floor-to-ceiling stained glass windows that alternated with white columns. \par
"Who are you?" she asked the silence.  \par
\par
A week later CJ found Jeannie in one of the dining halls.  People had been leaving and there were fewer tents and dining halls, so it did not take all that long.  Jeannie was sitting at a table with her back to CJ, working on some papers.\par
Silently CJ sat down across from Jeannie. \par
"Well, I'm home," CJ told her, and started crying.  Jeannie squeezed her hand and she smiled.\par
"I'm glad to see you," Jeannie told her. "I was hoping you would come back."\par
What now? CJ wondered if she was about to get scolded.\par
"I'll pay you the money back," she told Jeannie.\par
"Don't worry a moment about it, dear," Jeannie replied.\par
"Well, thank you.  I don't have anywhere to go.  I know people are supposed to leave here."\par
"Do you remember that I said I would take you in?"\par
"I do.  It's just that-"\par
"Yes?" \par
"I don't know.  You're old enough to be my mother. No disrespect."\par
"None taken. It took me a long time to get to fifty-two. Over half a century, in fact. I was your age once, you know."\par
"i can't just stay without some - I mean I can't - I want to be a part of this.  Before I left I just thought I could mooch."\par
"Why are you valuable?"\par
"I'm not, really.  I mean I am young and pretty and I have a great body. But there are a lot of young women like that, and there is always someone a little prettier, a little prettier, with a little better body.  It won't last."\par
"No, it won't.  Do you mind if I tell you why you are valuable?"\par
"Go ahead."\par
"Because God made you, and then He died for you. He is the one Whose opinion is the only one worth listening to."\par
"So you're going all religious on me?"  There was a sudden flash-picture of her mind of that simple cross against a white wall. Whoever had been there was here, too. "Sorry," CJ told both of them. Someone had paid a terrible, unfathomable, awe-filled price to allow her to be 'all religious'.  Where did THAT thought come from?\par
"No, realistic," Jeannie said, "Real.  It is really true, it is truly real.  It is not opinion or theory or hypothesis or just a story. It is the Story, the only real story.  All other stories are that story imperfectly told. I think C.S. Lewis said something like that."\par
"If I don't believe it and told you so, would you throw me out?"\par
"If you don't believe it and told me you did, I would have more problems with you."\par
"Well, I don't know if I believe it." Again, that sudden flash-picture of her mind of that simple cross against a white wall. Whoever had been there was here, too. The same thought.  Where had that come from?\par
"Just watch what happens around here. Get to know the people.  If your eyes are open, you will come to faith.  Faith is a free gift of God.  Think about that."\par
"Ok."  What was faith? Why would it be a gift? What did God have to do with it?  \par
"Now listen.  I have to do some paperwork.  Go over there," she pointed to a group of women working," and tell them I sent you to help but you are not an Epper. That is important because the Eppers work their tails off and you are not used to it.  They will expect less of you.  Hang around here and we will go to my house tonight."\par
So CJ introduced herself to  Angie and Karen and Angela and Betsie. They gave her a long ironed white apron to wear and helper her tie it behind her back.  It was kind of like a hospital gown because you tied it in back.  It was lightweight, light pink and hung down past her knees and was pretty full: it went three quarters of the way around. She didn't like long skirts but here it was. The sleeves ended half-way between her elbows and her wrists with a ruffled cuff, which CJ thought was cutsie. So were the little embroidered roses along the hems. \par
"You're single, right? Do you mind?" Angie asked, holding a kerchief.  CJ wondered if by 'single' Angie meant 'virgin', and smiled to herself. These Christians were hung up on sex, after all.   The others were wearing kerchiefs.  It would help her fit in, she guessed.  CJ nodded and Angie swiftly pulled her hair back, braided it and tucked it into a pocket in the kerchief.  CJ felt it with her hands.  \par
"Just like Betsie's - she's single, too." Betsie turned from scrubbing a wall and smiled. "This is how Dutch Epper girls wear a kerchief when we are single. The Russians do it differently. The French don't have any preference.  And the North Germans are all over the place with it."  It didn't look bad on Bestie, even though she looked like something from the Middle Ages. Weird but so were a lot of things.  Her normal was very distorted, so she was willing to accept things that were weird, because maybe they were normal after all?  CJ wished she had a mirror. Then CJ met a tornado named Angie. Instead of looking in a mirror she found herself scrubbing her hands up to the elbow harder than she ever had in a big kitchen sink, including under her fingernails, and then Angie even made her, right then and there, wash her face and neck.  Angie was a cleaning fanatic who was never satisfied, it seemed.  Finally CJ was clean to her satisfaction, and even then she was given rubber gloves to wear while working, with the instruction to change them when they were soiled.  There were two big piles of clean gloves, one for the right hand and one for the left, and a big pan full of soapy water where they went when they were dirty.\par
 At Angie's direction CJ found herself sorting knives, forks and spoons into separate neat piles, fresh from washing, and then stacking plates for people, and then setting out glasses, and then wiping down tables for the evening meal. Angie made her pile the knives, forks and spoons again and again until she was satisfied they were acceptable pyramids.  CJ had to wipe her first table down three times because Angie was not satisfied with the first two, and it got better after that, but Angie checked her work every time.  Chairs had to be wiped down and in some cases scrubbed and dried and straightened and the floor gone over one more time with brooms and then the mop. Some places, like around the trash cans, got scrubbed again and again. She would have complained but everyone else was doing a lot more than she was doing.   It was more work than she was used to, but they were patient with her. She wasn't used to any work, in fact.  And here she was sweeping twice and then mopping again.  They dumped the dirty mop water into the toilet in the nearest toilet facility, which meant hauling the heavy bucket.  Not to her surprise there was no mirror.  And then you changed your gloves when you came back.  For CJ it was the third time she had changed her gloves, which still seemed absolutely clean.\par
All four women were in their forties.  Their children were past the age they needed supervising, so these women were free to help setup.  They had nodded when CJ told them she was not an Epper but that Jeannie wanted her to help.  They were all four thin, quick-moving, solemn and earnest in demeanor, efficient and energetic.  CJ had looked at their blonde-grey hair poking out from kerchiefs and thought that she would outpace them, but no, they put out a lot more work than she could.  They could have been sisters, with their round faces and eyes that seemed to be laughing, although their mouths were downturned. \par
Angie was in charge, and it seemed as soon as CJ's hands were empty or a task was done, there she was with a broom or a stack or plates or directions, appearing, it seemed to CJ, out of nowhere.  She could have been on the other side of the tent a minute ago, or out of sight, but as soon as CJ was nearly finished with one task, there she was with another. \par
CJ was more tired than she had ever been outside of PE class.  Suddenly the four women she had been working with were gone, and Angie came up. "We're done for the day," she said with a smile, the first CJ had seen on her. "Thank you for your help. You would be welcome to work with us."  Angie shook her hand and walked out, taking off her smock as she did so and then her kerchief.  She shook her hair out, which fell to her waist in a golden, curly mass that CJ thought was unexpectedly beautiful. \par
Jeannie was still working on paperwork.  CJ flopped down in front of her. "I am so f--- wiped," she said. "I mean, that was HARD!"\par
Jeannie smiled and ignored the obscenity. "They were easy on you.  You can be one of the first in line because you worked setup.  I will get you after dinner. I would encourage you to sit with some people and get to know them.  Oh, and stay away from men."\par
CJ wondered what that meant.  Did Jeannie know how she had acted - before she left? Hadn't she said so? How long was that going to last?\par
CJ found herself eating turnips, apples, rice and potatos with the Gruber family of near Allentown, Pennsylvania.  They were on a short-term visit to look at the property and see if they could move out here, a planning trip, and were leaving the next day. Pa Gruber was a glass worker on an Epper settlement, and there weren't any here.  But he also had found no sand, so he was dubious about coming here. Ma Gruber was a little hesitant about CJ and was dressed, CJ thought, very conservatively.  But Ma Gruber's hands were also full with five children, as were Pa's, and ther was also a young woman of maybe fifteen who was helping with their five children, all seven or younger.  It was explained to CJ that she was on duty and to just ignore her. CJ didn't even get to know her name. They would not give CJ any names except "Pa" and "Ma", which they even called each other. Both Ma Gruber and the young woman were wearing blouses up to the neck and sleeves to the wrists, as well as skirts past the knee.  Ma  Gruber kept looking briefly, but not staring, at CJ's tight shorts and tight, short shirt.    CJ thought it very strange. They both covered their hair but the style was different between Ma Gruber and the young woman.\par
CJ quickly disposed of her tray and found Jeannie, who was eating with another woman of her own age and they were in earnest conversation, not to be interrupted.  So CJ waited quietly in the background.  One thing she had noted was that waiting quietly in the background was considered very positive around here - pushing yourself forward was not.  So she waited and watched.  Teams of people were scrubbing vacated tables,   others were ladling food, some were washing and drying plates and cutlery and glasses for reuse, and people were lined up, patiently waiting, even the children. Families with small children were allowed to the front of the line, she noticed.  Everything was being done calmly and efficiently, but it wasn't like any one person was making sure everything was being done.  CJ found this puzzling, because Jeannie was in charge, and she did not even seem to be paying attention.\par
"Well," Jeannie said, after a while, and after a number of people had sat down across from her in turn,"Ready?"\par
CJ nodded. \par
"You look tired. I hope the food helped."\par
CJ nodded again.  The long bus trip and the work was getting to her. \par
"Do you have any luggage?"\par
"Oh," she said, and found her duffle bag neatly placed on a shelf with the aprons. She grabbed it and came back to where Jeannie was talking to someone else, probably about the meal.\par
Jeannie smiled. "Angie said you did well today. No complaints.  That team is scheduled for the same shift, the day after tomorrow.  They would like you to join them."\par
CJ tried to smile back, but her hands, arms, feet and neck and back were hurting.  She just wanted to lie down somewhere and not move.\par
"How far is it to your house?"\par
"Not far, not far at all.  Here, you look exhausted. Let me carry that for you."\par
So CJ let Jeannie carry the duffelbag, which was mostly empty, anyway.  It was all she could do now to walk.  It occured to CJ that she easily trusted Jeannie with everything she owned. Yes, she did.  That was something to think about.\par
 How far it was to the house was a blur, as was the evening.  There was a bed and some brief conversation with Jeannie's husband, and then CJ simply crashed on the bed, not even turning down the covers or taking her shoes off.  She was done for the day.\par
\par
Morning came.  CJ found herself in a brightly-lit if small bedroom.\par
With a gasp her eyes traveled over the wall. A cross, a simple cross, the same color as the one in San Diego, hung on the wall opposite, set against the white paint.  It reminded CJ so strongly of the silence in the church in San Diego. "Who are you?" she whispered. But again, she heard nothing.  The silence would choose its own way and time to answer.  CJ thought that was a strange thought.\par
The room was small, full of a brightly quilted bedspread now cock-eyed on the bed from her sleep, and light curtains, a night stand, a dresser and a closet, and hardly room for anything else.  A wind-up clock said it was 7:30.  Goodness.    \par
 Who was in the house? More importantly, where was the bathroom? This was becoming a practical need.\par
After a shower, including washing  and drying her hair, and her morning bahtroom routine that she had not done in a while, she wandered into the kitchen, where Jeannie was sitting, once again working on papers.  A woman was sitting across from her.\par
"CJ arrived yesterday," Jeannie said,"CJ, this is Marlene. She is running what is now our second dining hall.  We are down to two and trying to figure out when we are going to go down to one."\par
"Marlene smiled.  She had a beautiful smile, CJ thought.  Her hair was pulled back in a bun, which on her gave a severe look, although she could not have been much older than thirty.\par
"You have a beautiful smile," CJ told her. Marlene waved it off with her hand and a "You need some breakfast.  There should still be some there, if you get there before 8 AM."\par
The wall clock said 7:50.\par
"Oh, my," CJ said, and dashed out the door.\par
It was a cool and cloudy September morning, with a deep dew still on everything and a promise of winter not that far away, although fall could linger here, off and on, until December, as she had been told.  The dining hall was not far.\par
"What is the breakfast?" she asked, holding her tray.\par
"Wel, most of the breakfast food is gone, so I am afraid it's borscht."\par
"Beets?"\par
"Well, there is saurkraut also."\par
"For breakfast?"\par
"Only if you are hungry.  If you are not hungry you don't have to eat.  And we have some apple sauce."\par
CJ took a scoop of all three on her plate and sat down and stared at it. Yuck. But that was it. She silently ate it, looking at the emptying building.  This was a metal building, the first dining hall nearer the house, not the tent where she had found Jeannie. One crew of women was standing, waiting for people to be gone so they could clean. Another crew was cleaning the cooking gear, and another seemed to be getting supplies ready for lunch already. They hauled in a new propane tank on wheels. Men were stacking empty tables and chairs so the floor could get scrubbed.\par
The feeling reared up from nowhere: she knew no one, that she had no where to go, and no purpose to her life. She answered it: she knew Jeannie  and Angie and the crew, and there was the house, and if she were ever going to find meaning and purpose, it was here, not in some black feeling.  She fought it off as she took her tray and dealt with it and headed out to find Jeannie.  This is stupid, she thought to herself, I am dependent on her.\par
"Hi!" it was Angie from yesterday. Like a light shining into a black pit.  The black fog dissipated completely.\par
"Hi!" CJ smiled back.  \par
"Can you join us tomorrow for dinner setup?"\par
"Sure."  They chatted for a few more minutes.  Walking away CJ said, that was like an answer from God. And then, am I getting this Christian mental illness?\par
As she walked back to the house she realized there were a lot fewer people around than when she had been here before.  Most of the people waved to each other - they all seemed to know each other.  A few people stopped to introduce themselves briefly, and she explained she was staying with Jeannie.  Most of the people were planning on leaving for the winter and coming back.\par
Now she was at the door. Should she knock or go right in? She went right in, and there in the kitchen were Jeannie and Paul and another man she had not seen before.  He was a lot younger than Jeannie or Paul.  Looking at him, she didn't know whether she wanted to marry him, have him bury her, operate on her, defend her in a lawsuit or have him change her tire and mow her lawn, or in what order.  He just seemed to radiate confidence and competence and strength.\par
"Jake, this is CJ. She's staying with us. CJ, this is the Reverend Jake Profim."\par
CJ waved vaguely.  She had heard his name somewhere.  Was he important or something?\par
"Nice to meet you, Reverend." Was she supposed to curtsy or something? Her hands were sweating.  The dynamics of the room said he was very important, like he owned the place. To survive CJ had learned to sense the dynamics of a situation quickly, like who was important and made the decisions, and who was subordinate.  This Reverend was the Top Dog,  like the sun around whom Paul and Jeannie orbited.  She of course was a -\par
"God's grace be upon you," he said. He looked at her, really looked at her, for a brief second, but it was not the way guys looked at women.  CJ felt like a searchlight had gone through her brain and heart  and this man knew every last secret she had, yet accepted her and just sort of hummed along about it all. There were things she told no one, and thoughts she kept pressed down and hidden. Somehow they were no longer secret.  She could not pretend they were, or that they would be kept secret forever. They would be examined and she would have to explain every one of them. Maybe not today, but eventually.  And there were hopes that she thought she had killed that were very much alive, like having a real actual life. Like loving someone and being loved.  Kids. Like stable relationships unlike what she had known. Maybe a high school diploma, even college.\par
"What are you going to do today, CJ?" Jeannie asked her.  The moment had passed, but there was a memory.  The Reverend turned back to look at Paul.  CJ knew the memory of that second would be with her for some time.\par
"I-I don't know.  I don't have any plans. I'm just kind of drifting."\par
"Would you like to go into town and get some new jeans? Maybe a nice top or two?"\par
"I would love to," she replied.  She was thinking of her ripped jeans that had a few too many holes as well as her t-shirts, which were skimpier than people were wearing.   \par
"Well," Paul said,"the day isn't getting any younger." With that the two men left and Jeannie and CJ got their things and went out.    \par
Again they went to the Hanger - that is what CJ had learned it was called - and they found the big pile of cash after threading through a maze of aisles.  If anything, the pile was a little larger. CJ tried to remember how to get there on this her second attempt, but it was also as if someone was noticing that she was trying to remember how to get there. The feeling of being watched was strong, and she looked around but saw no one.  There was the sense of the silence again.  'I am not going to try anything' she told it.  Meanwhile she and Jeannie were chattering away.  Sad how Paul had lost his settlement.\par
"You don't need to do all this," CJ said for the third time. She was holding a blouse up in front of a mirror.  It was functional. "Nonsense, girl," Jeannie said again, "We like to take care of people."\par
She returned to the house with three new blouses, three skirts (longer than she would have liked, and more practical), new underwear, socks, new boots, a new hairbrush and toothbrush, toiletries, and a jade bracelet she had admired and Jeannie had gotten when she wasn't looking. She put it all away. Jeannie told her she needed to be at the dining hall, and to come over when it was lunch time. She also mentioned finding some things to do around the place. She might think about giving her old clothes to be recycled, but that was up to her.\par
CJ left the house alone some minutes later. She closed the door.  It had no lock, which she thought was odd, very odd.  She looked at the Hanger and thought of its pile of cash. No one would know if she took some and hid it for her own use. Maybe at night. Maybe she could find the pile in the daylight sometime and later be able to find it when everyone was asleep in the dark.  There was something wrong, very wrong with this, she knew.\par
"I don't care," she said to herself,"A girl has to do what a girl has to do."   But she had tried leaving.  There was no sense in that thought, none at all.  It would probably go the same way. She walked to the dining hall and got in line for lunch. Soon her tray contained a plate with a salad, a pork chop, French fries, sauer kraut, and a piece of apple pie. There was also grape juice.  There was a strange feeling of being on one side of a glass wall that everyone else was on the other side of. She took her tray and sat down next to a girl her own age. She bowed her head as if giving thanks, but there seemed to be a wall or something.  She kept her head bowed long enough like she was praying, and then picked up her fork.\par
"My name is Cathy," said Cathy, smiling at her.\par
"That is my first name, too!" CJ told her,"But I go by CJ or Jenny.  Lots of people are named Cathy. It kind of sets me apart from the crowd. CJ, I mean." Again, there was that sense of alienation. \par
"It's nice to meet a fellow Cathy anyway," said Cathy. "It is a rare name among Eppers. This is Rick, my husband."\par
Rick leaned over and shook her hand. He then returned to his food.\par
"Rick is learning to cut stone in the quarry.  They are making gravel somedays, which is really noisy, and laying stone walls and, hopefully, building houses someday. We are expecting our first, you see, and I am hoping for a house soon, some better shelter, anyway, because I do not want to winter here. Rick is also trying to find somewhere we can live, but there is nothing in Nicholls. He will probably have to get an outside job to tide us over."\par
CJ nodded.  She thought to herself that there was enough cash in that pile to easily tide them over. Jeannie had given her money.  Couldn't she give Rick and Cathy some money, when she took some for herself.  That would alleviate the guilt. The guilt.  The word echoed in her mind.  But she wouldn't, couldn't.\par
"Are you ok?" Cathy asked,"You look ill all of a sudden."\par
"I'm fine, thanks.  But I need to eat and get going, I think." She could taste the fact she had just lied and was well aware of it. Usually she lied effortlessly. So she ate as quickly as she could and exited in the direction of the Hanger.  She was not looking for the money pile, she told herself.\par
Half of it was occupied with people working, women with sewing machines and men working on equipment, mainly.  They saw her coming and smiled.\par
"You must be CJ," said an elderly woman who intercepted her. "I am Melody Adams. Do you sew?"\par
"No", said CJ. There was absolutely no chance of searching for the money pile. Too many people. And that was not why she was there.  So why was she there?  She had no explanation, none at all.\par
"Would you like to learn?"\par
"I might," said CJ.  This was another lie.\par
"Well, all our machines are busy right now, so you will have to come back. Two are being repaired as we speak. Maybe tomorrow, if you are still here? I understand you will be living with the de le Grande's?"\par
"Yes," said CJ. "I will look elsewhere. Nice to meet you!"\par
"Likewise," said Melody. Melody turned and left, and CJ wandered, going away from the Hanger.  She looked at the church-hanger out of curiosity, because she had never been that close up to the stage.  It was quiet and all the instruments and equipment were put away. Nothing really to see.  So she wandered outside. She could see teams of men were taking down tents, but that required a lot more strength than she had.  But she joined one and found she could do some of the lighter work - gathering tent pegs, taking apart the poles and getting them ready for transport, and coiling rope.  Everything was put in neat piles and then a pickup truck would come and collect everything in a row and take it somewhere for storage.  \par
"Where are they putting stuff?"\par
"Oh, in the stable, I think. Or the barn. Or in one of the hangers, I guess." No one there knew where they were putting it. "It's not our concern." And it wasn't.  They moved fast.  Some of the tents had been left in poor condition, with trash and blankets and even clothing left behind, and all this had to be taken care of before the tent could come down. So CJ started just going into tents and cleaning them ahead of the crew, and she had piles of clothing and coat hangers and trash and blankets and cots neatly stacked so the men taking the tents down could work. They appreciated it, and the afternoon sped by.\par
She thought of the money in the Hanger from time to time, but was too occupied with this work to think much more about it.  There was a twinge of guilt whenever she did think of it. There were also some nice guys taking down tents.  She didn't understand her own feelings on that, as somehow she didn't want to catch their eye.  None of them seemed interested, and there was that sense of alienation again, as she was mainly working alone. She was cut off, separated somehow, although it wasn't so much physical as emotional.  There was a barrier she could not identify.  She would sometimes see the Hanger in the background and she would think of the money.  Maybe she could take it all? Just vanish in the night with it? You could walk into town, and there was a 2 AM bus to Joplin. Insane. Absolutely crazy. She wished those thoughts would stop.  And thoughts about some of the guys, all yammering in her head.\par
She was cleaning a tent that had been left in worse shape than it should have been. There were four cots, and there were blankets and sheets and pillows, but they had left clotheslines up and there were coat hangers on them and scattered on the floor. She shook her head and gathered the hangers - some tents had been worse - and took them out to the 'curb'.  She was four tents away from anyone else and the truck was nowhere in sight. She went back in and shook out a blanket.\par
A twenty dollar bill floated out and landed on the floor in clear sight.\par
"Oh," she said.  She stared at it. If you take it, no one will ever know. Finders keepers.  But somehow she knew it was not hers, that it really belonged to someone else.  Maybe there was more money here, and it should be gathered like everything else and someone would take it to the Hanger.  Maybe she could go and learn the way better.  No. She folded the blankets and sheets and took them out to the curb and then untied the clothesline and coiled it, leaving the money.  If she left it, they would think she was honest. Maybe that would get rid of this strange barrier, she thought, and then no one would suspect anything when she headed to Joplin rich as a queen.  No, she thought. She was not leaving. More money than she had ever thought of was back there, like a magnet, free for the taking. No, she thought, she was not taking it.\par
The next tent was neat, with a pile of cots and the blankets, sheets and pillows folded on top of it. She just took everything out to the curb and she was done.\par
After that was a tent that had a screen door, a brightly colored tent with zipper windows and a plastic floor.  The zipper on the screen door was stuck so that you had to bend down to go in, and when she went in, there was a smell of garbage, the cots were overturned and the blankets and everything was mixed together on the floor with trash and garbage.  Someone had been very sick in here, also, and there was a smell of sweat and vomit.   Whoever they were had left all the windows closed, and they had been gone some time. There were flies, and the only way you could get any air in there was to unzip up all the windows, which were on the inside of the screens. She gagged and backed out and took some deep breaths.\par
She could just walk away.  There was no commitment here, to do this. None at all. But hadn't she taken the easy way too many times.  She looked over at the crew.  They were working hard. After a minute she turned and tried to open the zipper wider, but it would not budge.\par
"I don't think we can save this tent," she told Adam, the crew leader.  He came over and stuck his head in. "No, some are just so bad we destroy them.  Even it we cleaned this one out, it would always smell. Too bad, it was a nice tent.  Maybe we can reuse the material, so cut along the seams if you can. Got a knife?"\par
She didn't.  He handed her his. "Kind of like people, huh?" he said. "I mean, God cleans us up but sometimes it seems we are too far gone.  I am glad we are not tents, but then there are people who will not repent who will wind up burned. You know? Earthly tents and all that. Scriptural. Something to think about."\par
CJ got stuck on the 'will not repent who will wind up burned'.  That came out of nowhere. She thought about it as she cut the fabric  first on the front and then on the back of this tent. It had exterior poles and she cut the ties. That stirred the flies up inside and she stepped back until the tent collapsed on itself.  She didn't want any flies landing on her. She then cut the ropes to the tent pegs and took apart the poles. \par
What did she have to do to repent? What did it mean that people will wind up burned? She looked at the Hanger and thought about all its money.  There was a connection, she thought, if she could put it together. \par
Why was there blood on the tent pole piece? It was smeared there.  She suddenly realized her hands were bloody - there must be some small sharp pieces that had made very small cuts. Now her hands were bloody, both the palms and the backs of her hands. CJ could not touch anything without getting it bloody. With a cry of disgust she threw down the tent poles. She wiped her hands on the tent, but that didn't help. She needed first aid.\par
She went back to Adam. "I cut myself. Do you have a first aid kit?"\par
He looked at her hands. "I think you need to go to medical. You don't know what got in those cuts. It could be something really bad."\par
"That's why most of us are wearing gloves," Zeke said. He was like that, Adam's eyes seemed to say.\par
"Can you make it on your own? It's right over there - in clear sight. I can go with you if you want."\par
"No, that's all right." CJ was a little shaken by this.  Her hands were slowly bleeding, just enough to make a mess, not really enough to drip, just enough to smear anything she touched. The cuts seemed to be on her finger tips and and on the heels of her palms.\par
She held her hands palms up as she walked.  She felt stupid.  There was nothing she could touch, nothing she could do until this was taken care of.\par
The medical center was  the house right next to where Paul and Jeannie lived.  They even had a wall in common, in a neat little row that reminded her of some houses back east.  She knocked on the door with her foot.  After a short silence there were footsteps and Penny the nurse opened the door.\par
"What happened to you?" she asked.\par
"I was taking down the tents - helping, I mean, and I guess this happened when I was taking apart tent poles."\par
"Have you had a tetanus shot in the last five years?"\par
CJ could not remember. That would have been over three years ago - when she was still in school, when life was coming apart.\par
"Are you allergic to iodine?" She shook her head. \par
"That stings," she said around the thermometer that had come out of nowhere and was under her tongue.  Cotton swabs dipped in something were being applied to her cuts. The something was cold. Her blood pressure was being taken at the same time.\par
"I will bandage you up. It doesn't look bad but let's have the doctor take a look."\par
"Ja, I can make nothing of it!" he said in a fake German accent. He was a jovial sort and he put on his gloves. CJ thought he looked like a TV doctor, like Dr. Kildare. He looked at the cuts.\par
"Not so bad, not so bad. Penny, was there anything in there when you cleaned them out?"\par
"Just some very fine splinters, they looked like aluminum."\par
"Well, they all look clean now.  Probably the blood flushed the wound. I see NOTHING. Nothing wrong, young lady.  But let me take your vitals.  And you have not been up here before, ja?  Mind if we take some blood and urine samples and you get the old going over?"\par
"Ok. How can I pay you?"\par
"Don't worry. You live with de Le Grande's.  Pastor Paul. We take care of our own.  But - I want to take a urine sample. I want to check on something, a health concern that commonly arises among women."\par
Penny asked the question,"When was the last time you had your period?"\par
"Well, it's late. It was before I got here - maybe in July?"\par
The doctor nodded.  "Let's check that urine sample. And you may need a full physical. When was the last time you saw a doctor?"\par
"That was back when I was fifteen, I think.  So four years."\par
The doctor poked and prodded and ah-hahed and shone his little light in her eyes and up her nose and in her ears.  "That all looks good.  You should see the  dentist just in case. But there are some questions I need to ask you..."\par
We take care of our own. WE TAKE CARE OF OUR OWN.  It was all she could think about. We take care of our own.\par
\par
"You look frightened," Jeannie said. CJ sat down across from her.\par
"I just saw the doctor and he ran some tests."\par
Something in her tone got Jeannie to put her pencil down and give CJ her full attention.\par
"I'm pregnant," CJ said.\par
"That is wonderful. God is bringing new life into the world. It is a privilege to be a mother. Some women never get to - did you tell your - I mean, the father?"\par
"I don't know who it was.  I mean, I have been sleeping around. I've never used contraception. Dr. Herzenstube is running some tests for STDs and everything. I feel so low and so stupid."\par
"Well, God gives us grace when we need it, not when we can live without it."\par
"I'm not ready to be a mother.  You know that. I suppose you are going to tell me I have been asking for it and this is just what I deserve."\par
"No," Jeannie said quietly.\par
"I suppose you are going to kick me out. I'm not worth keeping around. That's what all my guys have said. My parents don't want me either - I told you they're divorced, and I don't even know where my brother is. They would all be ashamed of me. I am ashamed of me."\par
"I - we are not going to kick you out. Oh, CJ, I really wish you could accept the love of Christ in your heart. You are hardly the first girl this has ever happened to, or that I have known.  People think 'ministers' lead sheltered lives.  We see people as they are more than most people do.  The good news is for you. It is not that God justifies the righteous and condemns the sinner, although that happens. God justifies the unrighteous, and that is the good news!"\par
CJ shook her head. "You used some words there I don't understand and I am not sure I followed you anyway.  I want to thank you for your kindness to me but I will be going -"\par
"Not another word, young lady. I want you to sit right there.  You need some time, and this is a place you can be. I will take some time later to explain what I meant. I promise. Now, people are going to come up and talk to me - that's how I run these dining halls - and I want you to watch and say nothing, absolutely nothing. Just watch how we do things.  Can you do that? "\par
There is not a whole lot I can do, anyway." CJ held up her hands.\par
"Oh, my! What happened?"\par
"I was taking apart some tent poles and I got cut on some metal splinters. I didn't even notice it at the time. So I went to the medical center, and Dr. H. examined me, and Penny cleaned up the cuts and bandaged me up.  It was all free, too."\par
 "Yes, it would be.  We are not using money here. Just like the food is free."\par
"So who is paying for all this?"\par
"The One who provides everything.  The Lord. Like we sing: Jehovah Jireh, Our Provider, His grace is sufficient for thee, for thee."\par
"I suppose you would say that.  But how, specifically?"\par
"I don't  give it much thought, except for the food.  My Paul knows that better than I do`- I think Jake sends money from being on the road, and for some reason God prompts people to send money, and people donate, and there are a few champion-level scrounges like Joyce Dunbar that God leads places to providential opportunities -"\par
"What is that - providential opportunities?"\par
"God tells her to go to such-and-such a place and people give her things.  It is amazing. But we did eat nothing but potatoes for a week last month. That was a trial for some.  But God always comes through."\par
"You mean so far."\par
"No, I mean always. Now please, I need to talk to people. There will be a line shortly. Please move over and let Ruth sit down."\par
Ruth smiled at both of them and turned her attention to Jeannie. "I just wanted to let you know that everyone showed up at the other dining hall and everything is running smoothly so far."\par
"That is wonderful," Jeannie replied.\par
"We have coconuts," the next woman told her. "We have never seen coconuts before. I have heard of them, of course, but we don't know what to do with them.  Do you boil them? Peel them? If so, how? Do they soften when you bake them?"\par
"Do you know Johnny Bread? He is from Florida. I believe he has a machete and can open the coconuts. He used to work in a restaurant down there, in food prep.  I believe he is making gravel.   Are there coconuts coming to both dining halls?"\par
"Yes, we have over four hundred coconuts!"\par
"That is amazing!"\par
"Yes. Johnny will be really busy.  I suggest some other people learn how to open them from him, when you find him."\par
She nodded and left.\par
CJ found these conversations soothing.  Everyone seemed happy and she was beginning to understand the amount of work that went into preparing meals here.  \par
"We had ten dining halls running at one point. Two is easy," Jeannie told her during a lull.\par
"I'm getting bored sitting here," CJ told her.\par
"Will you promise not to run off somewhere?"\par
"You can't keep me here. No promises.  My promises aren't any good anyway."\par
Jeannie looked at her solemnly. "You could change that, you know, and make a promise and keep it."\par
"I guess I could. But why?"\par
"So people would trust you. So that you would be more of a person than you are. Do you want to stay the way you are or become better?"\par
"It hasn't exactly worked for me to stay the way I am. I think in some ways I am going downhill. It's scary, actually.  I never told anybody that."\par
"But you told me. I think you trust me."\par
CJ nodded. \par
"I think you can be a better person than you are right now."\par
"Well, I will try. How about that?"\par
"You need the Lord's help.  I have a sneaky suspicion he is on your case.  So if you want to go, fine. But you will be back here. I know it.   I think it may be that the only people in the world who are about you are right here."\par
"That is probably true. That is why I came back, you know. Because of you feeding me lunch and caring. Showing you cared. I was sitting on the beach and thinking this is stupid and I don't know anyone, so I came back. San Diego is supposed to be such a great city but I got there and went to the beach and I thought, so what. Nobody knew me, nobody cared. So I came back here.  Yeah, if I left I would come back for some reason.  And Dr. Herzenstube will look after me. He cares.  And Paul cares. And Angie. So I am not going anywhere."\par
"I hope not."   \par
"I'll talk to you later. These people need to talk to you and I am just in the way."\par
Jeannie waved good-bye.  There was a line. \par
CJ wandered back to the house, back to her room.  Her room.  There was an embroidered flower in a wall-hanging: Each Day Is a Precious Gift from God it said in pink script. The window looked north, towards a barn and beyond that to the flat horizon with a few scattered trees and those weird mounds. She looked at her new clothes and held them against herself.  There was a full-length mirror on the back of the door. She thought the clothes were for someone a little older and more modest than she was, but what the hey, they were free and nice. There was a Bible on the night stand, a new one, still in a wrapper. There was a card.\par
"Dear CJ,\par
I was thinking of you and I got this for you.  You don't know me, but I pray God's peace be upon you.  - Joyce "\par
Wow.  Someone went out and got her a Bible.  Like there wasn't enough Jesus-this and Jesus-that around here.  She took off the shrink-wrapping and sat on the bed and looked at it. She opened it up. 'Holy Bible' said the first page.  She might as well look at it, everyone around here made such a fuss about the thing. She turned through some pages that were blank, about marriages, births and deaths, with places to write peoples's names. Maybe she would write Baby's birth in this.  She turned back and wrote her name on the first page, where it said, 'Presented to'  and then where it said 'from' she wrote 'Joyce.' Joyce who? She didn't know. Then there was a space for the date, and she thought a minute and wrote September 1976.  She wasn't sure of the date. There was a calendar on  the wall.  She looked at it.  But the months were all wrong: there were 13 months of exactly four weeks!   She remembered something someone said about the Epper calendar that some people used, which consisted of a partial month, and then the new month would start on the first day the moon showed, and then they would have twenty-eight day months until the final partial month.  They figured out the final date of the year from astronomy somehow.  You could always tell what day of the month it was by looking at the moon.  Some reaction against pagan month-names.   But the calendar was blank   So she wrote September 1976 carefully and she  leafed through it and found a list of books of the Bible, broken out neatly in six columns.  It looked like the book of Genesis was also called Ecclesiastes - no, there were two columns of Books, with abbreviations and page numbers.  And there was the Old Testament, with many more books than the New. She had known that, but there it was. She leafed through it and found Genesis 28:31, where it described making a blue robe. Bells on it. That was funny.  There was Isaiah,in the Old Testament.  She blushed at remembering her lie to Jeannie.  She was blushing at having lied? Well, that was different!\par
She flipped forward into Isaiah, to see what it looked like, and her eye landed on Isaiah 59:1. \i Behold the Lord's hand is not so short that it cannot save.\i0  God has short hands? No, he doesn't. God has hands? Sounds like it. \i Neither is His ear so dull that it cannot hear. \i0 Good to know. God has ears?  But why is He so far away, why this sense of isolation?  \i But your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God\i0 ..What are iniquities? This sounded like it was talking directly to her. And your sins have hidden His face from you, so that He does not hear.....Oh, crap. God does not hear my prayer? Oh, crap.  Not that I pray. \i For your hands are defiled with blood\i0 ...CJ looked with horror at her hands, bandaged. She remembered seeing them covered with blood earlier. \i And your fingers with iniquity\i0 ...Now she remembered what that meant, and she remembered some things she had done. Her heart was pounding and she could tell she was blushing: the blushing had begun earlier, but was getting worse. \i Your lips have spoken falsehoods\i0 .  Right on, Bible.  You are a freaking scary book. \i Your tongue mutters wickedness\i0 .  That is me, she thought.  That sense of a bright light that she had had when Jake had been here was back.  She read further, learning of a downward path that awaited the sinner.  O God, she said, O God.  I want to straighten things out with you but I cannot. How can I live any other way than this. mooching and lying? Who will straighten me out? And my baby will be the same way.. And she came to verse 15: \i God is displeased there is no justice. Astonished that there was no one to intercede\i0 ?  She read but did not understand until she came to:\i  my Spirit which is upon you, and My words which I have put in your mouth, shall not depart from your mouth, nor from the mouth of your offspring, nor from the mouth of your offspring's offspring, says the Lord, from now and forever\i0 . God was the one who would fix her.  He was on her side.  Isaiah was worth reading, she would have to come back. What was the New Testament? She flipped forward and landed on "\i Come to me, all who are weary and heavy-laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you shall find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my  load is light. \i0 It was like He was right there, in the room, standing.  She turned and knelt at where it seemed His feet were.\par
"Forgive me, Lord," she said, forgive me."\par
"Go find Paul and tell him about this.  He is my friend, and he will help you."\par
There was a sudden silence.  Had there been a lot of noise and light a second before? The daylight was normal, and she reached out and touched the bed.  It was solid, normal. But she was on her knees.\par
She stood and checked her face in the mirror - it was ok.  She brushed her hair a little - it looked like someone had mussed it a little on the top, and opened the door.  She could see Paul sitting at the kitchen table from her door!\par
"Hello, CJ" he said,"What have you been up to?"\par
She walked into the kitchen.  There was that Jake fellow as well.\par
"I see you have a Bible."  She looked down. It was tucked in her arm.\par
"Yes, yes I do." She was a little startled that they were there. "It was a gift from someone named Joyce."\par
"Joyce? Joyce Dunbar?"\par
"The card just said Joyce.  But I started reading it. I mean I flipped through it and there was this passage about your hands are covered with blood." She held up her hands. "And God putting His word in our mouths and stuff.  And then I flipped again and it was like he was right there and he said to come to him and I knelt down and asked him to forgive me!" She looked at them. She was afraid they would laugh, but they didn't.\par
"Did he say anything to you when you asked him to forgive you?"\par
"He said to go find Paul - there you are - and tell you about this - that you are his friend, and you will help me."\par
"Well, that is good to hear. Good to hear.  I think you came to the right shop.  Do you mind if I ask, is there anything you need to be forgiven of that you need to talk about?"\par
"There is a power in the confession of sin," said Jake.\par
CJ looked from one to the other.  She had a feeling pretty much everything was already known.  She would be confessing more to accept the forgiveness they were already giving her than to be forgiven.  Part of her was tempted to draw back, to run away, but she was through running.  And behind them, or through them, or in them, somehow, was.. She was not sure how to say it.  It was like the silence had come down to earth and put flesh on. And she found herself completely unafraid, and began.\par
\par
\i\par
\i0\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\line\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf1\i\par
\par
\par
Isaiah 59\par
 \cf2\i0\par
\cf0\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 