{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9\par
\b July 6, 1977\par
Departure\par
\b0 "Well, that's it," John Cassell said to no one in particular, except that Carolyn looked up from cleaning two-year old Micah's berry-smeared face. Since exactly 10:30 AM, Tuesday, March 8, 1977,  after the session meeting of Yukon Flats Settlement in which he had been stripped of office, laicized and ostracized, they had sent out 512 letters to old friends and relatives  only to be met with total silence,  one had come back from his sister dated June 6.  John flagged it as another Tuesday and thought of where they had been that down, out with the Gwich'in.  The letter began with a 'Please do not write any of us again..." After they had been expelled from Yukon Flats Settlement, a semi-nomadic band of Gwich'in had taken them in on a temporary basis, and John had checked the mail and sent letters whenever they had been near Fort Yukon. But his family was not suited to life with the Gwich'in and it had only been temporary.  Now the band was moving off, and their time with them was over, most definitely, certainly, undeniably.  John was standing in the Fort Yukon  post office reading the letter with his family huddled around him.  The Gwich'in band was moving off east - they could be seen, disappearing into the fog. Tonight they would be in  one of their camps.  They had been discussing settling down, as many had, but wanted to keep the old ways and were leery of what they had seen from those who had abandoned the old ways. \par
"Where can we go?" Carolyn asked quietly, searching his face. \par
"I really don't know.  But we cannot stay here, especially with the kids so small."\par
"You could get a job in Fairbanks or Anchorage, I suppose, as a manager. You have ten years experience, after all, as an administrator. Maybe a school system?"  They had had this conversation  many times before. \par
"I could, but I know my calling.  And they would want references.  That would be met with silence, which would simply kill any opportunities. And schools hire for a year, usually in the spring to start the next fall.  That is a long time to wait.  God \i will \i0 provide.  He is \i always\i0  faithful. Let's pray."  They did.\par
When they finished the postmaster came out.  He himself was Gwich'in.  "My brothers are in the band you were with- they told me your story. I will help you. Tell you what,  I will talk to the pastor at the Baptist Church - you can sleep there tonight. Tomorrow a Cessna will land full and leave empty.  Except I am sure there is room for you. Take you to Fairbanks. Sound ok to you?"\par
It did.  It did, indeed.  They had only the clothes on their backs and one change of clothing, and their Bibles: Septuagint and New Testament in Greek and translation.  The settlement had given them cash for most of their belongings and promised to send the rest to wherever they wound up.  So they could travel light.     \par
It was a little odd, staying with a Baptist, as Yukon Flats had been separatists.  John thought living with the Gwich'in would have cured that, but no, because the Eppers had maintained their separatism, if cordially, and neither side knew what to expect.  But there was hospitality, and real beds, and food closer to what they were used to than they had been eating, and hot showers.  Pastor Adams understood their situation well enough to not pry, and John was not in a talkative mood.  Carolyn hit it off with the pastor's wife, though, and there was a church in Fairbanks that could put them up for a few days, Alaskans priding themselves on their hospitality and Fairbanks even more so.\par
They crowded into the back of the Cessna and John watched the snow-covered boreal forest, the snow-covered rivers and snow-covered town of Fort Yukon grow smaller as they climbed. He could almost see the settlement in the distance, but he looked elsewhere, at the wide, flat, braided river, frozen, with loose snow blowing in the gusts across it wandering across the flatlands out of sight. With it he shook off the complex contract negotiations of everyone in the settlement, including his memories of exactly what their agreements were and why they were so, as well as his knowledge of inventory on hand and needs.  They would have a hard time without an administrator, which was almost essential for a settlement. There were a few people he had been training but no one with the full complement of gifts. Their problem.  Yet he cared, and he had to let it all go.\par
\b Transit\b0\par
"I've always had respect for the Eppers," Pastor Brown said, filling John's coffee. "I could never live that way, not being raised to it, I mean on a settlement, but you really live out the Christian life in a community.  100%, I mean, away from the temptations of modern culture. The stuff pastors have to deal with in the cities..."\par
"Well, I am no longer an Epper. You've probably heard about the doctrinal purge. They finally caught me. I refuse to explicitly deny that miracles are possible today, so I am a raging, tongue-talking, rolling on the floor enthusiast who sees angels daily and casts out demons from under every bush. No, but that was enough."\par
"Yeah. I follow the news.   There was a fellow who got kicked out before you, maybe you know him.  Last week he was preaching at one of our AOG churches, one here in Fairbanks, I mean. All week. I figured the whole North heard he was coming to Fairbanks.  Anyway from the publicity."\par
Without much interest, just to continue the conversation, John sipped his coffee and asked,"We were out of touch, out with the Gwich'in. No contact with white culture for months except for trips to the post office in Fort Yukon.  What's his name?"\par
"Jake Profim."\par
"Really."  Despite John having lived in Alaska for ten years, he knew Jake Profim.  Years earlier they had been prayer partners at a pastoral weekend and had become close friends for that week, the sort of friendship that can be taken back up at a moment's notice.  Pastors and administrators tended to have complementary personalities.  John was a planner and an organizer; Jake was chaos outside a pulpit.  Jake Profim was simply unaware of the need for some kind of organization beyond a sermon outline and a preaching schedule.  Jake also had a distaste for administration, preferring to to leave that to those so gifted: in fact, Jake avoided almost everything outside of the pulpit, where he excelled.  Many pastors among the Eppers had very little sense of practical needs and preferred to leave most everything to an administrator.  They had had an amusing week as prayer partners and teased each other.  A good time. John had found himself getting Jake to where he needed to be, including to the airplane home with his airline tickets and his baggage checked. John had been very pleased to serve him.\par
John half-expected to be met at KCI by Jake Profim.  First class  tickets from Fairbanks to Kansas City International had showed up very quickly, giving the impression that whatever Jake was doing, someone was highly organized and extremely efficient.  John hadn't actually spoken with Jake, but Jake had left word that if John Cassell ever popped out of the woodwork - he had lost track - to get them there if at all possible.  Where "there" was John wasn't sure.  Perhaps Jake needed someone to help organize his travels and writing? But if so, why were the tickets there so quickly? And someone was meeting them at KCI.  So Jake had some organization in the Kansas City area.  John recalled he was from somewhere south of Kansas City, but that was all he could recall.\par
\b Friday, July 8, 1977 3:57 PM\par
\b0 John was pleased that the flight landed within three minutes of when they said it was.  He loved good organization, and he had encountered it.  He made a note to himself to buy TWA stock if he every got the chance.\par
Outside Gate 22 was a stunningly attractive young woman conservatively dressed, more so than normal, holding a sign that said "Cassell/Profim".  Not that there was a crowd. John counted forty three people in sight, besides the seventy eight who had been on the airplane. Jet.  He did this automatically, always noting times, dates, people, anything and everything, all details, patterns, trends, prices.  She was about five foot three and one hundred two pounds, in her mid-twenties, he guessed.  Her hair was pulled back under a kerchief in a tell-tale German Epper manner.  There used to be a code for how they wore their kerchiefs: one way for single, one for married, widowed, single celibate, but it had never been standardized and he had no idea what hers meant. Maybe someone had just taught it to her.\par
"John Cassell."\par
"C.J. Owen."  They shook hands.  Strong, firm, decisive grip, more of a man's grip and surprising in a petite female. This one means business. \par
"This is my wife Carolyn. And Phero and Micah, our children."  More hand shaking. Phero stared at her silently.  Micah was watching one of the small birs swooping overheard.\par
"It is very nice to meet you. I hope you had a good flight.  I must apologize because you were met by me and not by Jake or Paul or any of the elders.  Jake is preaching now in Panama City and then Lakeland next week. Florida. And things are keeping people busy. Jake was ecstatic when he heard you were coming - no one knew where you had gone when word got out that you - well, when you were no longer an Epper.  I am just a sort of Girl Friday. And today is Friday, after all.  Today I am your driver.  We are extremely busy right now, down where we are going."\par
"I am very pleased to meet you.  I am really not clear on what I am headed into. In fact,  I have no idea what it is."\par
"I don't think anyone does. It's sort of a cross between a refugee camp, Woodstock and the Second Coming."\par
"So it's not his.." John searched for a term, one no Epper would use,".. ministry headquarters?"\par
"Well, no. Not really.  He has a team on the road.  He works with publishers directly: he doesn't publish anything directly."\par
"So what is here? A church? College? Publishing house? Sorry, you said not the last."\par
"Hard to define.  One step short of chaos only by the grace of God, some say."\par
"What's it called?"\par
"It really doesn't have a name. People call it all sorts of things. Profim Properties, mostly. New Zion, West Nicholls, Eppers in Exile, to name a few."\par
"Who is in charge?"\par
"Jake....Well...There are elders, but they tend only to the spiritual needs.  Paul de le Grande is a pastor, but he is busy meeting ground-level needs. He is a very good builder. Jake Profim has oversight but he is on the road most of the time. I am sorry to be so vague - I know you want answers.  Are you an Epper administrator? Did I get that right?"\par
"Yes, yes I am. Rather, I was.  I have been laicized."\par
"I see." It was clear that carried little meaning for her. "Well, let's get to the car."\par
Parking was convenient.  John admired the efficient arrangement of KCI: it was only a short distance from the gate to parking.  He noted there were shuttle buses between terminals. If you had to connect from one end of the arc of a terminal to its other end, it still wasn't very far. There were different bus colors and they seemed to be in abundance. Marvellous. Inspiring. \par
In the conversation down to Nicholls it soon became clear to John that no one was in charge, that in CJ's opinion, but that was all it was, and she would not clearly state it, not that he blamed her,  Jake was going to continue to keep decision making authority but have John responsible for those decisions, even when Jake knew nothing about the situation at hand. John inferred that he could expect strong challenges to his authority here.  He would have to earn it and there was the risk of being undermined by Jake or by other, unknown forces.  How much could he really trust Jake? And, likewise, this CJ to give him the straight picture?  It was not an Epper settlement, nor even modeled on one, that was clear: many of the people were American-culture charismatics without any Epper background.  Nor was it a church, as it was outside all other towns and separate.  And some people were just visiting, some people were there to stay, some people had no idea but were drifting.  John was used to strongly defined lines of authority and people staying inside those lines. What he had read of American-culture charismatics worried him, seeking spectacles, amusements, going overboard, not grounded in Word, sacrament or doctrine, unsteady, sensationalistic, obsessed with tongue-talking and demons. He hoped it was not true.  There were also others who were using the whole thing to escape. Some people had been asked to leave.  One man had died of an overdose, and CJ was sure there were other drugs in the shadows.\par
"How many people are involved here?" he asked.  A big Epper settlement would be four hundred.\par
"I am not sure.  I think around six thousand people in the summer.  In the winter it gets mostly shut down because we have not yet built the facilities.  Last summer was over six thousand, I expect, but then no one has counted. But we have more this year than before last summer, and the summer before.  It starts up around Memorial Day weekend and continues building until the end of August, and then we start talking about people leaving.  They do, slowly."   \par
 "Incredible. That is larger than anything the Eppers have ever done, anywhere. What do they do?"\par
"There is worship every night, and speakers some nights.  There are smaller Bible studies and prayer meetings.  There is a dawn prayer meeting, I am told, that goes out to pray that the Lord returns that day.  When there is no official worship going on, there are many smaller worship sessions throughout the camp.  There are people praying twenty four hours a day in rotation, and people who read through the psalms every night.  We have counseling teams and a discipleship program.  Some people come who have hardly any skills and learn. I was one.  You can learn Koine from any number of people.  You Eppers are big on Koine, but then you knew that. Manthano ten glossen, too.  Tein glossen? Or should it be hooten glossen?"\par
"Either way. No time now for a Greek lesson. Sorry. How is it funded?"\par
"Well, a lot of people send Jake money, I guess, and somehow it gets here.  People give in the offering.  God works miracles."\par
John was almost afraid to ask. "Are there books? I mean, as in accounting?"\par
"We don't even have a bank account.  There is a pile of cash in one of the hangers. When someone needs something, that is where they go. And other people contribute to it, I guess, or it grows miraculously."\par
John was not totally surprised, as that was an ancient Epper way of doing things on a settlement, but it had died out, he had thought, a century ago.  He looked out the window. Remarkably flat territory, this. Highway 71 went straight to the horizon.  They had passed into Nicholls County, although the town of Nicholls was still not in sight.  CJ said she lived with the de la Grandes.  Jeannie ran the dining halls. CJ took car of the housework and her son.\par
They passed through the town of Nicholls. 4.2 miles after leaving Route 71 they passed through a red cattle-gate: slowly, because there was a long line, but someone also spotted their car and they got priority.\par
\i Who are these people? Why are they here? \i0 John wondered. There were license plates from Maryland, Arizona, Oklahoma, Mississippi, Arkansas, Missouri, Minnesota, Michigan, Texas, Delaware, Pennsylvania. Even California and Florida. Ohio. Indiana. Virginia. Some part of his mind tabulated the numbers seen and gave him the total broken down by state and region.  It was just something his brain did. None of it was any information he needed to do anything about, but it would be there if he ever did.  Families with children, Dad driving, Mom looking bored, kids trying to get on each others' nerves in the back seat, luggage on the roofs or in the back of station wagons.  \par
There was a huge parking area mostly full of passenger cars, more than John could count, somewhere over 2,300. He could not see them all, so he did not have a good count. Less than 2,400, though.   CJ was flagged north, to a row of stone houses. Four had been completed and another one was under construction.  Epper style, they were connected, multi-story.  Soon more houses would be built across the future street. John wondered if anyone had thought out how to do blocks, or had surveyed anything past the next house.  John saw a stable, a barn, and a huge area covered mostly in green army tents, with a colored one here or there where people had brought their own. Twenty-five camper-trailers were grouped together.  John also counted seven motorhomes rising above the lake of tents.  He was not prepared to call it a sea, mainly because he desired accuracy, and some lakes were large. To the south was an imposing row of aircraft hangers that he had seen when he came in. If that wasn't out of place...A commercial airliner could easily fit in any of those hangers.And there were smaller buildings: showers, latrines, some hastily-built dining halls scattered through the field.\par
"Jeannie runs the dining halls.  That's where most people eat, if not everyone. A few people eat in their homes. We'll be eating tonight with the Paul and Jeannie at their home. The first house is the medical clinic.  Then there is the de le Grande's, and then a house that a few elderly people are living in who cannot handle tent-life."\par
There were a million questions demanding answers, from where the tents came from, how the water and sewage systems worked, as well as where the food, the hangers, in fact, everything, had come from, and worked.  But there was no time. Were there roads and fire lanes through the encampment? How were these people handling Missouri summer heat in heavy canvas tents?\par
"I see."  Carolyn was giving him the look that meant they all needed at least a shower before they could consider eating with anyone, even each other.  CJ caught the look and handled it.\par
 Eight sat down that night at the table: the four Cassells, two de Le Grandes and CJ. And CJ's two year old son Adam, as full of energy as anything on meeting four-year old Phero and his two-year old brother Micah.  Despite maternal interventions, they were determined to find out who could scream the loudest. And Adam wanted Mom after the separation. \par
Grace was said by Paul, Epper style, short and to the point. Good Russian-style Epper borscht, which they had missed.  Black bread with rye seeds with real, heavy butter. Pirozhki. Whole milk. Vatrushka  for dessert.  Somewhere were cattle, although he had seen none. And somewhere here were people who really knew how to cook.  This was amazing.  Yukon Flats cooking had always been a little less than it should be. Carolyn had said she had thought her cooking skills now were half of what they had been on arrival, but this was master cooking. There could be a great more to this place than his quick impressions had told him.  A lot more. What was God doing here? What was his own part in that?  The adult  Cassells were offered coffee, which they politely declined. They made some small talk.\par
"I understand you are a friend of Jake Profim," Paul finally said, with a smile that told John there was some evaluating going on, which John found reasonable, and it was not one sided. "Good man. He has done a lot for me.  A friend of Jake's is a friend of mine."  They looked at each other silently, the Alaskan administrator in his late thirties and the weather-beaten Missouri carpenter in his mid-fifties. What commonalities did they have?  John was used to cross-cultural situations, especially with the Gwich'in, but this one might be more difficult as they would assume things that perhaps they should not.  John could not afford to say anything that could be taken as criticism of Paul, but what CJ had said in the car was fresh in his mind, and his own observations since had told him the place was close to chaos. A better phrasing: he would like to see what he could do to help.  John had a list of items he needed to determine as soon as possible - if possible, tonight. But he also always preferred his own observations to what anyone else told him.  And part of his mind was occupied developing a schedule of how to handle the next week, and filling it in as quickly as possible. The first question was to resolve whether this could possibly be a fit, even if there were no other alternatives.  He had learned that sometimes doing the only thing he could do in a situation was the wrong thing. He preferred to have many options, and to compare those options in time, money, personell and material costs.\par
"CJ tells me you are an \i administrator\i0 ," Paul said. "At the risk of sounding like I am boasting or  unfriendly, up to this point the Holy Spirit has been the \i administrator.\i0  As you know, not every Epper settlement has had one.  In many places, in fact, the office is frowned upon.  We haven't had one here, and I am really not sure one is needed.  We know how to wait on the Lord.  But of course that does not rule out the idea of waiting for an administrator."  He smiled.\par
"The gift of administration is of course in Romans 12," Jeannie added, "Mr. Cassell, we do recognize that God raises people up.  I am sure Paul does not mean to disparage you."\par
"Not at all.  I don't mean to sound that way.  But Jake said nothing to me about bringing in an administrator.  This dinner is the first I have heard of it.  If Jake has been unhappy with the way I have been running it - or rather, deliberately NOT running it - because, in fact, I have been waiting for an administrator - relying on the Holy Ghost for direction -  he has said nothing to me.  But then communication these days is not the best, frankly, between him and us. To be honest, I am relieved that you are here. Please accept my apologies if that was too strong a statement."\par
"Not at all.  I prefer the issues be on the table to be looked at honestly. I need to understand the situation. And thank you for stating that.  This does not seem to be a situation that will automatically accept an administrator, and I need to walk with care. I want to be of service, not push you aside.  To allow the teaching elders to do their jobs unhindered by administrative concerns, to make you more effective in what the Lord has called you to do." \par
"That's good. Spoken like a true administrator.  Allow me to boast, however: to the credit of God and secondarily. in a minor way, to the people here, it's been very self-organizing.  There are some people who have taken over some areas, such as Jeannie with the kitchen, but God has provided  in some very remarkable ways."\par
"That is good.  Of course I don't plan to just show up and take over running the place."\par
"Since you are an administrator, I wish you would."\par
That would be a mistake, John thought, but said nothing.  John privately wished there would be some formal installation, with the bishop, pastor, elders, in front of the entire settlement.  He valued formality not for its own sake but for clarity and efficiency.  He also wanted to know, and people to know, that he had the backing of everyone else.  It made life a lot easier, especially when he had to make unpopular decisions. There was always a calculation of how far to go, and how far you could go, and how far you should go, and when not to go, made easier with clear fences, boundaries, policies and procedures, even if those only existed in his mind.\par
"We don't stand much on formality around here.  Why don't you just go ahead and administer? Administate? Manage? Run the place. Whatever it is?"\par
"Well, I need to know who I am working with.  I would like, if I could be so bold, as to have some sort of public recognition that I will be in the office of administrator. But that might also backfire.  I tend to lean towards caution."\par
"That allows him, sometimes, to take great risks," Carolyn put in. "John tends to undersell himself. He is amazing."\par
"Thanks, dear."\par
"The words of a loving wife can be honest and true.  Can't you just do it? I mean, do you have to have some kind of formal recognition? No one else here has done so.  People will recognize your gifting, I think, and at that point we can recognize it.  I mean, you are an administrator, and you have just arrived.  Urgent as the need may be, perhaps there is more to this than that."\par
John saw the prudence in that.  He needed to know more about what was going on here.  He also wanted to actually talk to Jake Profim, preferably alone and length. They had not spoken in years.  He was assembling a list of questions in his mind.  Were they even on the same wavelength?  There might be something that would just stop him from being able to work here.  But he was used to ambiguity and even confusion regarding administration, protocol and procedure from pastors, who usually left things like that to the administrators.  There could also be a lack of appreciation for the even the need for an administrator.  An effective administrator put himself into the background so much that the pastors didn't even realize it was happening.  Jake Profim had been from a city church, not a settlement, and might not have any idea of what was needed.  It might be difficult to convince him. Or, for that matter, to get any authority.  It might be that he had to demonstrate his way into the position. So Paul was giving him the path he needed to take.\par
"Elder Berg is someone you should speak with.  Former bishop of Ohio.  He is kept busy with the worship team, the preaching schedule, the counseling teams, the prayer ministry - all that side of things.  I prefer swinging a hammer to pointing one.  Leading this people is beyond anything I can do, even if I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me.  I think perhaps I am so weak and in this position so that someone else - hopefully you - with the gifts can step up and lead this place."\par
Noting John's silence, Carolyn asked, "Do you have anywhere that we could stay? Even for one night?"\par
"There are some tents with cots set up that haven't been occupied yet, I'm sure.  You'll find the stoves heat them up nicely on cold nights, and it does cool down here some nights, even in July - nothing really cold, just cool, but some people have difficulty with it.   Most of the people here are in the tents - we are  building houses but the houses we have are already occupied.  It would probably help your cause to learn how they do it."\par
"Do you have one in mind?"\par
"Well, no. You will have to wander around until you find an empty one.  There are plenty of cots, blankets, sheets, pillows, even clothing down in Hanger Three. I really don't know where it all came from - stuff just seems to show up without explanation, whether by direct divine intervention or anonymous giving."\par
They found an empty tent literally by wandering around until they found it.  There were no signs.  Tents had been put up without any order.\par
John looked closely at the tent they selected, which was an army surplus tent like many others: well made, no holes, waterproof, with screened windows you could cover in the roll-down sides.  They rolled up the sides for ventilation.  The floor was rock and rough in places but pretty level. Someone had driven the stakes into solid rock, or had drilled and set them, the sort of thing Eppers would do.  \par
"Welcome!" said Mike, the husband of a the family occupying a tent that more or less faced theirs. They were from Florida since the end of May and had spread gravel over the stone "helps when it rains, it being so flat here."  They also had a clothes line set up outside and one inside that they used as a closet, shelves, rugs and a table.  This impressed John in a non-Epper. Mike liked to refer to the tent city as the Feast of Booths.  Israel in the wilderness. \par
Mike had volunteered for work, which also was a good move in John's opinion.  Mike was on the honey wagon team - they pumped out the latrines and dumped it out away from everyone. "I get a priority at the showers," he said with a grin.  \par
Carolyn stayed in the empty tent with the boys until Mike and John could return with the cots.  John took his bearings from the hangers and the houses under construction.  He managed to find his way back with the cots, with Mike's help, and made a second, easier trip with blankets and Mike helping him carry some of the pillows and sheets and clean clothing and towels.  Carolyn and Mike's wife Stacy would go later for some things she needed.  Mike was in his early twenties; Stacy could not have been twenty.  Their children were a toddler and a babe in arms. Their tent had a rocking chair and a playpen and a table as well as cots, none of it in the sort of order that would tell any Epper they were Eppers.  Clearly they were not. "We came here for the Rapture," Mike explained, as if that was normal and explained everything.  John had heard of the Rapture - it was in some non-Epper theologies, but he couldn't place it, so he said nothing.  Why, he wondered, would someone come here for the Rapture?  It had something to do with the Second Coming, he recalled. But why?\par
"We were exiled from our settlement," John said.\par
"Sorry to hear that.  There are a lot of you-uns around here."\par
"That is your son?' Mike asked, nodding to Phero, "he looks Vietnamese."\par
"Yes.  He was boatlift.  Many Eppers adopted orphans after the fall.  He was born in Indonesia and abandoned."\par
"I was over there. Viet Nam, for a year in the Marines.  I came to Christ in combat. You know the saying, there are no atheists in foxholes? I went into a firefight an atheist, and by the time the shooting had stopped I had accepted Christ. Well. There are a lot of you - I mean exiled Eppers - around here.\par
"Yes, there are."  As if that was a signal, chords from the worship team began from Hanger Three, and people began drifting south for an evening together.  John could not count them all, especially since some people arrived for the service and then left.  Not only was the hanger itself full of people but there was a large open area in front of it.  And still people were seated up into the tents.  \par
John mentally counted 6,243 people on site the next day, including one who was born in a  tent. Ninety five were Eppers of Russian extraction. mainly exiles from Canadian settlements: they were talking about forming an Epper settlement some miles north when they had enough people: this tent city was a strange and alien place.  There were many ex-Eppers who had been cast out of their settlements and churches and had come here to start a new life, one open to the gifts of the Holy Spirit and more ecumenical than in their previous existence.  Mostly they were still in shock from being exiled and they drew strength from each other.  They had pitched in to help and were the backbone of the operation if it had one. John was more concerned with a mixed group of American culture charismatic Christians: somehow most of them had gotten it into their heads that the millenium was about to begin, and begin here. There were crackpots and eccentrics of every stripe and spot that somehow had been drawn here.  And then there were others, people who had just latched onto the place or showed up here for free room and board: drifters, druggies, dysfunctional people like you would find in halfway houses, soup kitchens, mental institutions, drug dens and other places that John knew little about.  There were some sixty of them, as some of them were also mixing with the Americans and it was hard to get a good count of the overlap.  Much of this needed addressing. \par
John was also trying to have an actual conversation with Jake, but the main way of communication seemed to be to mutually leave messages in telephone tag.  What John wanted to talk about did not lend itself to that.  \par
Jake knew he was there, and was glad.  "Do what you can" Jake had left a message.  Between speaking, writing, counseling and talking to pastors and traveling while on the road, Jake had very little time.  Ok, Jake's time management skills seemed poor from his perspective. But what did he know about that - he could only assume Jake was priortizing correctly. But he felt like he, and this place,  was a low priority when it should not be.  He had worked with worse.  \par
John had inventoried what was on hand, including the buildings, wells, showers and outhouses and what was called "Sweet Fields" -  a rocky area where they dumped what had been pumped out of the outhouses, several miles south and downhill from the living area. He'd heard about and looked at Snake Woods from a distance and had ridden the boundaries of the property.  He'd talked with Jeannie about the meals, a man named Bill who was  building the houses slowly, cutting one block at a time from the quarry and transporting it, then placing it, measuring it and determining what the next block should look like.  He'd talked to Elder Berg about the services, held in one of the hanger buildings.  He'd looked at the labyrinth of junk and been shown the money pile.  He looked at the hanger where they had a machine shop and a sewing business.  He'd looked at the hanger full of tents, cots, heaters, and supplies.  When winter came, none of the hanger buildings could be heated, at least not with anything they had on hand. The shower pipes were too shallow for winter and would have to be drained come fall.   He'd spoken with Dr. Herzenstube.  Almost everywhere it was the same: people were content, happy, working together to meet their needs.  God had provided and would provide.  \par
Why am I here, he wondered.  He took two tents and layered them over the base layer of his tent, putting plenty of straw between the tents.  He weighed down the sides with rocks and straw, and more rocks on the straw.  The weather was in the forties and most of the people seemed to think winter was nothing to worry about.  \par
The Eppers were the ones working, he realized.  Aside from a few like Mike, most of the 'Americans' were spending their time praying, playing guitars and in worship and visiting.  Epper settlements were supposed to be self-supporting.  This obviously wasn't - they were selling nothing outside and importing almost everything they used.  Some people were working in Nicholls and elsewhere outside the property, but then there were those who weren't working at all. That would have to end.  "He who will not work, neither shall he eat" was Scripture.  He contemplated putting up some Scriptures in the dining halls - that one would be up in all of them. Hospitality was one thing, but this had gone on too long.   \par
Income and outgo worried him.  There was no basic accountability or stewardship happening.  Someone must be tracking donations to the place: perhaps someeone in Jake's ministry.  There was no bookkeeping and no accounting; there were no records.  Some Epper settlements operated that way, particularly those without administrators.  There was that pile of cash, but John also understood that  some would consider counting it to be a lack of faith.  They had enough problems as it was: he could not risk offending an unknown number of people at this point. There was electricity: somehow the bills were being paid.  There was power to the hangers, the stable and the houses.  And, oh, yes, the water wells. He understood the shower water was solar heated.   \par
But beyond the lack of actually providing any sort of benefit to anyone, there was the whole question as to why people were here, and what 'here' was. No one seemed to know.  It was a "refuge city" but what was one, and how did it work? John listened to the tape of "A Refuge City" in which Jake Profim spoke of the City of God.  But there seemed to be a huge gap between that tape and what it said, speaking of the New Jerusalem after the return of Christ, and the myth of a New Jerusalem here a few miles west of Nicholls in Nicholls County, Missouri.  \par
Elder Berg and Paul both deferred all his questions about vision and purpose to Jake Profim, who, basically, could not be reached. It was against John's nature and training to ever act without authority.  Not that he always used his authority, but he always wanted to know what he could do.  How could he talk to these American evangelicals, who were so foreign? He could enforce nothing, but he wanted to have that in his back pocket - at least to know it was there.  And he was totally against bluffing.  What if they asked who was going to make them do anything? \par
"Where can we go?" Carolyn wanted to know.\par
"Anywhere. This is not working."\par
She nodded.  \par
"Oh," was all Paul said.\par
That 'anywhere' was thrown back in his face in his prayer time.  "Where can we go?" It seemed like the surest sign that he was called to be there was his total inability to do anything. He looked out at the miles of absolutely flat land, absolutely empty land that seemed to echo the emptiness he felt.  Israel in the wilderness. You follow the cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night.  But what cloud? What fire?  What did it all mean?  It was too big, too vague, too slapdash to manage.\par
How could he exercise leadership he did not have?  \par
But it had been built into him, had worked in the past, and was needed here.  Typically a pastor provided leadership and an administrator managed the decisions.  It was clear by now that Jake was, if anything, not wanting to provide leadership. He was "too busy". Conference speakers on the road often were.  But he also could have taken some time and come back here and set things in some sort of order, at least delegated or defined leadership. Paul was emphatically not leading and Elder Berg was following Paul in that, but also doing a lot of one on one pastoring.  John knew that Elder Berg knew what was happening even better than he did, but was reluctant to act.  He could act.  He had been very effective.  But he feared presumption on one side and inaction on the other.\par
Was Elder Berg waiting for him, John, to step up?  Was he being called to simply take the place on when no one had called him to do it? And if he didn't do it, who would? What would happen to this place? He wished he had some sense of guidance, some indication, some burning bush, something. Anything.\par
His walk had taken him several miles west, out into the open. The sun was beginning to set, a sun in a red sunset.  The temperature was in the forties but was dropping a little. Time to head back.\par
There was only the silence.  Silence from God, Jake, Elder Berg, and the people.  People were glad he was here but had no idea what that might mean.  He would have to take this step by step.  He could only start small, one step at a time, and see what he could do about organizing this place.  Organizing it into what? It was already larger than a settlement, but there were more non-Eppers than you would have in a settlement. It was something new, something strange.\par
He could not leave.  That was not an option.  But he could find little ways, little things to do, and then later deal with the big items - the opposite of the approach you usually took. He would have to be sufficiently assertive to administer, but not so that he was pushy. Overly pushy, anyway.\par
He was glad of the light in the dining hall and the people.\par
"Well, I think we are home," he told Carolyn.  \par
"I thought you'd come around," she said.  \par
"I'm John," he said to the man seated next to him."\par
"I'm Pete." He was a huge man.  They shook hands and John's was almost lost in his. "I cut stone for the houses. What do you do?"\par
"I'm an administrator. I'm hoping to help in that area."\par
"You are?" This had been overheard by five people, all of whom had helpful suggestions about how things needed to be improved, organized, fixed, addressed.  He spent the next two hours listening to them and to other people who joined them.  They were mainly Russian-culture Eppers and expected things to be set up like a settlement.  A settlement would have been organized a lot faster than this - granted it was not a settlement, but those principles and methods would have helped - and there were a lot of things that needed to be addressed, with all respect.  \par
On the way back to the tent he realized the entire focus had been on externals, with no particular overall direction.  There hadn't even been any criticism, even veiled, of the leadership, which was remarkable.  It was arranging paper clips, not planning capital improvement projects, but it was a start.  And he also needed to address their issues, or see that they were addressed.  What could he do within the limits he had?  These were comfortable thoughts.  He was feeling at home. \par
But both the vision of 'the refuge city' and here as 'the New Jerusalem' were wrong.  This was neither an Epper settlement or a city church.  Most of the people were not even here - they had had 6000 people the last two summers, most of whom intended to return.  That was a city in itself, as Epper settlements tried to stay below two hundred. Over that, and you formed a colony.  This was completely different.   Jake \cf1  \cf0 does not seem to know or is unable or uninterested in telling anyone.  Without stepping into unrealizable dreams or standing still because of failure, he must move forward.\par
There was cloud cover and he was walking in the dark in the small circle his flashlight cast on the rocky ground.  Exactly. \par
If anyone was running the place right now it was CJ Owen, John concluded the next morning. She was answering the telephone at Paul and Jeannie's. She was also going into town to get the mail.  If mail was to someone that she knew was there, she took it to the dining hall and put it on a table for pickup.  Other mail went into a pile for Jake.  He said he would deal with it when he had time.\par
John asked if he could see the mail pile that had built up. CJ led him to the unused stable, where a rather large pile occupied most of a stall. \par
"We moved it out here when it got too big for the house," she explained,"Jake said he would get to it."  She watched him for reaction.\par
He nodded. "I think I will go through it and see what he really needs to see. Throw out the spam, for example, to save him time when he comes.  Next time he calls let him know."\par
"Well, usually we just leave a message with someone on his road staff.  And then they call back with a message from Jake."\par
"How long does that take?"\par
"It varies.  Sometimes, like with you coming, it was an hour. But a day is longer. If it is complex, it takes longer.  And sometimes we get no answer."\par
"Just tell them I'm going to prioritize the mail.  And have you gone into town for the mail today?"\par
She nodded. "There's a pile on the dining table.  I'm going to separate the mail for the residents."\par
"Let me see the rest, ok?  And I am going to write my settlement and tell them send my stuff here. They promised they would.  I think I am just going to have to start \i administrating.  \i0 I will need your help."\par
She nodded. \par
He categorized the mail he would up into four piles: to Jake, to deal with, to defer, and junk.  Jake would get offers to come and personal letters of thanks.  There was a letter from the Missouri Department of Natural Resources concerning their "unpermitted and unregulated effluent" that went in the "deal with" category along fifteen checks from donors.  They totalled over a thousand dollars. He wondered how many checks were sitting out in the stable, and how many other governmental concerns were being ignored.  Other official correspondence went into the "defer" because he would have to deal with the effluent situation immediately.  Then there were the catalogs, offers, etc.  The last letter had no return address and was unsigned. It was a death threat against Jake.  John sat there, looking it it, stunned.  \par
"CJ" - she was sitting on the couch, reading a story to a child - "here is a death threat.  Is this the first?"\par
"I don't know, honestly.:\par
"Have you ever gotten an envelope that looked like this?" He showed it to her.\par
"I don't know."\par
"Well, I am going to have to let Jake know.  And the Nicholls police, I'm afraid. We need to see if there are any more out there."\par
He looked at the checks, all made out to Jake Profim.  "Do we have authorization to deposit checks for Jake?"\par
"I'm not sure we even have a bank account.  We use cash - you know there is that cash pile out there in the Hanger - and the offerings are in cash.  Nicholls uses cash only."\par
"Does he have a bank account we could deposit money into?"\par
"I suppose he must.  How could he be on the road all the time just on a cash-only basis? I would think churches would give him contributions in a check. And there are expenses, such as airplane tickets, that are handled better via check.  How did you pay for my airplane tickets?"\par
"I didn't - we didn't - that must have been done by someone on Jake's staff."\par
"Well, I would like to know the name of that someone."\par
"Trudi Mueller.  I talk to her a lot.  She used to live here."\par
"I would like to talk to this Trudi."\par
"Ok.  Probably a lot easier than trying to talk to Jake."\par
One hour later he had dropped the death threat off at the Nicholls Sherriff's Office in a sealed bag, had deposited the checks in the bank, and had toured Sweet Fields again.  It was far enough away to be out of side of where people were living, but Sweet Pastures stank, and worse, there was a trickle of black water that snaked its way across the rocky ground and managed to make its way to a culvert under the highway.\par
An hour after that he was watching Pete and his crew of rock cutters dump rock for a  temporary dam across  path of the black water.  That was topped by smaller rock, but there was no clay, so it would just trickle through. Maybe it had enough solids to plug itself? But this would show DNR they were trying.  According to the letter they would have to get a registered professional engineer's plans into them for a permit.  It was the third request and there were going to be penalties soon.\par
He spent the rest of the morning digging through the mail pile in the stable searching for official letters, death threats and more checks.  Catalogs and junk mail were stacked in their own pile.  He would have to go to the bank after getting the go-ahead to go see a lawyer in town to help with the DNR situation and to form a LLC to be named Profim Properties. The lawyer had been recommended by Trudi: a member of the Epper Church named Dennis Opp.\par
 \par
"He who will not work, neither let him eat", the sign said at the beginning of the dining hall, when it was clear not everyone was volunteering.  There were sign up sheets.  All the ex-Eppers worked hard, but there were some people who had come for the Refuge City who simply wanted to coast.  When the sign went up, some people got angry and demanded Scriptural proof.  But there it was in 2 Thess 3:10.  \par
Now as John drove he  liked the look of the western sky less and less.  Earlier it had been sunny, and at noon warm   that the kids were running around with light coats, glad for the break. It must have been at least sixty degrees, warm for January.  Some people had rolled up the sides of their army surplus tents and everyone was enjoying the warm weather. Daniel Moreau, his assistant, was riding along with his coat unzipped.  It was overcast under a slight west wind, with the clouds darker the further you looked west.  He had lived in North Dakota and inland Alaska, and in both places he had learned to watch a winter sky. \par
This was one of the American charismatics.  "You are neither elected by the congregation in recognition of a calling not appointed by the established authorities. On what grounds are you exerting authority?"\par
"Common sense, and Scripture," John replied. "We must obey the Word, yes?"\par
"Well, yes.  But I would feel better if there was an anointing on it."\par
"On what?  Scripture? We are applying Scripture by requiring that people do something besides showing up for meals. Are you saying there is no anointing on Scripture?"\par
"Well, no. I hadn't thought of that.  But our work is to sing and make melody unto the Lord, and to worship Him with all our might. 'All our might' means we don't have time to sign up on the lists - I didn't see Worship on there."\par
"You are right - because we are all called to worship the Lord, to pray constantly. AND to work. It is a both-and. Right now we badly need to cut a ditch to drain water so we are not waterlogged this winter.  A ditch in rock.  That takes men who can wield a pick and a shovel."\par
"You mean manual labor?  Me?"\par
"Yes, you."\par
"I have a degree in English literature - from a prestigious univeristy.  I have never done that."\par
"I suggest you start off slow and work your way into some endurance."\par
The man was shocked. SHOCKED.  John had a number of conversations that went  the same way. Some people packed up and left, others signed up.  It took three days to have everyone signed on the work lists. The ex-Eppers had already all been signed up - it was the "Americans" who were having a problem with this.\par
"We've gotten some angry mail and calls," Trudi told him.  He'd moved the administrative officce to the Hanger, in a sheltered corner.  Now there was a little building inside one of the    big buildings, complete with electricity, a telephone and a heater.  It was surrounded by piles of folded tents.\par
"And?" John asked, with a little concern.  He was hoping he would not be undermined.\par
"Jake seems to think the criticism is unwarranted. Are people trying to work it out there with you or just going around you directly to Jake?"\par
"I have a feeling a lot of what you are hearing is from people who didn't talk to us about it. Just read the sign, got offended, and they were out of here, but they still complained to Jake, when they should have talked to me."\par
"Yes, a lot of people are stuck in un-Scriptural patterns and emotional immaturity."\par
"Yep."\par
"Well, I don't think you'll find we are going to enable that.  Our response is going to be that if someone has a problem with you, please discuss it with you FIRST before coming to us."\par
"Sounds good to me!"\line\par
John went to look at the rock-work and how the new Americans were faring.  The row of stone houses was slowly progressing.  They reminded John of pictures of Jerusalem - some Epper settlements were consciously built out of white stone for that reason, in the same sort of style that people had seen in pictures of the Old City: only here it was the most available material- and blocks were being cut from the future ditch, which had started some half mile away. You could not tell by eye that the ground dropped three feet in half a mile, but that was the current outlet.  The plan was to cut it straight from there and then in an arc to the west of their living area, and deepen it as they could.  One crew was cutting the top six inches or so of the stony soil - these were mainly the new guys - and the second crew, the real quarrymen, were cutting the blocks and lifting them up out of the ditch. A third crew was transporting them, and a fourth crew, the actual masons, were doing final fitting and cutting.  With the new people work had actually slowed down, he had been told, but that should change with time.\par
What if it rained? John looked at the flat ground that went, flat, in all directions.  Whoever had begun building the houses, and whoever had built the hangers - he had no idea who, or when - had built them several feet above the surrounding terrain as if to say "tent dwellers, think about this!"  They needed more people cutting ditches, obviously, but it was hard work. Due to the heat some crews were working early mornings and as far into the nights as they could.  But it was work for strong men with stamina and skill, and most of those guys were already on it.\par
"Paul, how much land is here? I mean, is in Profim Properties?"\par
"I don't rightly know.  I haven't paid much attention to that sort of thing.  We all live in the original forty acres, if that is what you're asking."\par
"So there's more?"\par
"Well...yes.  People got together - people outside of here, mostly - bought up the old Mueller Ranch and a few other parcels.  So there is a lot of acreage."\par
"Do you know the limits of the property?"\par
"Well, it goes from here up to the Cass County Line, then along the Kansas state line, then along the Bates County line, and then to where the county splits in two. Except for land where 71 goes - there is some land to the east of it, because 71 goes through Nicholls County on a diagonal - and the town of Nicholls.  I really don't know how much of Nicholls bites into it.  There is some additional acreage people bought and donated outside of that.  I think Jake would know.  But it's never been all surveyed, to my knowledge."\par
Approximately 350 square miles, his brain told him.  Chicago was 234 square miles. Kansas City was 318 square miles.  Smaller than Indianapolis, bigger than Dallas.  His brain did this automatically, helping him with facts he had sometime acquired and bringing them out as needed.  They could run cattle.  They could build greenhouses.  They could sell rock.  They could be a self-supporting community.\par
\par
"We need to talk about membership," John began again with Elder Berg.\par
"Well, yes. We do."\par
"I'm thinking there must be some sort of doctrinal agreement to be a member here.  I've had some very strange conversations."\par
"Well, we have always been broadly Reformed.  But we have rejected Calvinism and Arminianism, Lutheranism, congregationalism, Catholicism, Eastern Christianity, perfectionism, Hopkinsianism, liberalism, and of course the early heresies, such as Arianism, Montanism, Docetism, Pelagianism."\par
"I know. Eppers have always refused to make a positive profession of faith. It is more a statement of what we don't believe than what we do.  I think we should change that."\par
The Elder blinked, startled. "That is a very ambitious project.  It would take, why, in our case, I am not sure what it would take.  Buy-in from the bishop, but then we don't have one, as well as concurrence from the presbytery, but then that is not here either, and neither is a definite session. "\par
"Jake acts as the bishop, if anyone does."\par
"I am not sure he would define it that way.  I think he would not.  And we have no one called as a pastor, and no installed elders."\par
"Then, with all due respect, do you think we should work on forming a session? At least a working session whose job it would be to hold an election to obtain elders?"\par
"An unelected session, one without the episcopal blessing?"\par
"Do you want to find a bishop who will give the blessing? Or assume that office?"\par
"You presume to much of me, that I would presume the office.  Like you, I have been laicized."\par
"Do we have anyone here who has not been laicized? Jake? Paul?"\par
"They laicized Jake.  I think Paul has not been laicized, which is why he performs the sacraments as a duly licensed minister. But he also prefers not to lead, as you know.  He would not be a good pastor for this place, and would be the first to tell you so."\par
"Who else would be a good pastor? Or elder? I would like to get a working group together to figure out how we are going to proceed."\par
"Let me think about it.  I will sound out two people I can think of right now, but I advise you to go very, very slowly here.  I know as an administrator you want everything organized, done, scheduled and planned, but you also know that everything has its time and its season. I know there is great need and you are working on meeting it, but again, people move slowly. You are aware, perhaps that erroneous laicization is not laicization.  It has to do with church law. "\par
"I'm familar with the administrative law, but not the clerical."\par
"This sort of thing has not come up very often.  I don't Eppers have ever done this. One of my arguments was that that they were outside of their rights in laicizing a bishop, but they decided against me anyway.  The question is whether in the sight of God I am really, actually, laicised.  I am looking at what happens here and seeing if the gifting and call remain.  But I will not be presumptious.  Better to serve humbly than have a glorious title."  \par
John had no reply.\par
\par
"I think the biggest problem right now is a leadership problem." Daniel was telling him.\par
"What's that?" John asked. Usually this would be followed by pointed comments, but not from Daniel. Although he had known Daniel only a few months, he had been impressed by the young man's insight, as well as an ability to express those insights in a way that was less than offensive. This was a rarer combination than John would have wished.  John considered Daniel as staff, along with CJ.  A good administrator leveraged other people more than doing the work himself.\par
"Well, Jake is not here, at least not very often.  I think  that an overly large number of the people want  Jake to provide direction, like Moses, day to day direction, as our Apostle, and I don't think he wants to.  For one thing the only thing keeping a lot of us alive is the fact that he is funding this.  And I think that is bad, but I expect we will turn that around. This ground must be good for something.  Cattle, maybe.  So he can't be here, and God does not put all his fruit in one basket.  I think a lot of it is falling on you, John.  But some of these people will not listen to you because you quote don't authority from God as would be demonstrated by ordination into the pastorate or recognition as the leader by Jake unquote."\par
"I actually like it this way. I can persuade. And remember I was ordained as an elder, although it is not the same as a pastor.  And officially I am no longer an elder, although what weight that carries here I am not sure.  I am no pastor.   All I can do is persuade.  The thing is, if someone is convinced what they are doing is right, they will do it whether you are watching or not.  If you lay down rules and regulations they will try to cheat.  But some people  want to be bossed around and directed, ordered around and micromanaged.  With every fiber of my being I hate that, and so I am not pressing Jake on the issue. You remember his teaching on cream and scum both rise to the surface. I like to think I am cream, and that there is good self-organization going on.  I mean, I am here.  Jake is not, and is not about to come in here and dash off a lot of orders and then leave us to follow them.   But it is a source of frustration.  You know, though, it would be a lot easier just to order people around.  Sometimes you have to do that in an emergency.  I thank God a lot of people are listening to me.  Sometimes I wonder if it is doing much good.  You know people have been giving up on the vision of the refuge city they had come here expecting, finding instead army tents, simple food, and hard, hard work or monotony.   The emotional high cannot last.  People are hitting the surface issues with the self-organization but there are deeper issues, like the financial sustainability of the place.  What it means to live here.  What are we trying.  You can go on for years without a purpose and then you wake up and realize you wasted the time.  That is what I am afraid of."\par
"This land had been Jake Profim's little place in the country, away from the city, a quiet place on the prairie where he could pray.  He had bought a quarter section of useless land.  There had been some dilapildated structures when it had been a farm, at least fifty years earlier.  Jake had had the barn inspected and repaired and was storing straw in it against the day when he could raise horses.  He had read some books as a child on horses and always had wanted to do so, although he knew nothing about it.  Architectural experts on the art of building stables had designed, and he had had built, a magnificent structure with twenty stalls, tackle rooms, rooms for feed and everything you could wish if you wanted to breed horses.  However, it had no equipment and no supplies and no horses.  Jake simply had no idea as to what to do next, and he was on the road, preaching, most of the time anyway, and John did not see raising horses as any sort of priority.  Jake would come back and walk through it, enjoying owning it, and talk of a house he would build someday.   When his preaching days were done, and if God had not called him home by then, well, this was a taste of heaven, a promise, and he enjoyed just walking through the silent building, thinking of the promise.  In John's opinion Jake had a lot of vision and dreams and left the follow-through to others.  But that was the way it was, sometimes, and perhaps Jake knew that what he had dreamed of would be for other people, someday, in a far off future. They were allowed to store things in the stable, if they kept it neat, but it wasn't supposed to be used regularly, only at great need.  Eventually Jake wanted anything stored in it moved elsewhere. That eventually meant when he was ready to abandon his road ministry and return.  For now, when John knew he was coming, they would take everything out of the stable and store it in the hanger and start over in the stable, because it is so much closer to the houses.  Jake was happier that way, although he knows we're doing it. "\par
"Huh," Daniel said.\par
 John Cassell almost always lived in the now and planned the near with an eye on the future.  He was not so poetic as to say he turned ideas into reality, but rather he met immediate needs and planned to meet ones he saw coming.  Now as he drove he was thinking of his phone calls in Nicholls.  Most of them were not good news, which was not unusual.  The next food delivery would be delayed several days due to weather. Joyce Dunbar,   Official Scrounge, had inspected a rock pick she had heard about and it was too high in price for its wear. They needed a rock pick.  He had a difficult phone call with his brother, who was willing to talk to him but only reluctantly, neither willing to come outright and tell him to repent of heresy or willing to break the relationship. John had picked up the mail, which included a letter from something called the Department of Family Services.  Someone ELSE had complained about conditions, someone who had left, and they would be sending someone to do an on-site inspection to see if the children were endangered by unhealthy and unsafe conditions.  He had gotten a rather scalding letter from someone who had left pointing out that he, John, was 1) incompetent, 2) arrogant, 3) bossy , 4) presumptuous and 5) ungodly and 6) out of the will of God, a Korah subverting the will of God as expressed through Jake Profim.  It was not the first "love letter" he had ever gotten and he no longer let these things get to him.  Various people had mail.  \par
"We need to get somebody to just deal with the mail. We need our own postal person." he said, expecting Daniel to write it down.  And he did.  \par
\par
Now it had been sixteen years of life here.  In front of him the old farmhouse and barn were burning in the night.  They had built a high chain link fence around the old buildings and kept the grass mowed outside it.  Simon Brot, his amenuensis, stood beside him.  \par
"Arson."\par
"Clearly arson."  They watched, along with others, to be sure the fire did not spread.  How could it on the lifeless Midbar?  John wondered if this was some sort of rebuke - Paul had never, ever locked anything, saying you could trust the Lord.  Now John had installed locks on the church hanger, and that very night someone burned down the old farmhouse.\par
The pumper truck and the men in turnout gear stood ready and did nothing.\par
Five days later they found Simon's body out on the prairie, dead from deydration in the July heat, along with a large uncut diamond. Where he had found it no one knew.  Paul de la Grande told them how he had found it years earlier.  It is quietly and secretly buried with Simon, and those who found Simon's body promise silence about it.  It was not regarded as a good thing.  No one knew why Simon had taken it, or where he was going, or if he had told anyone about it.  "It lead to Simon's death. Had he not found it, he would still be alive. It is worthless, accursed, good for nothing. Let it be buried and forgotten.  If there is treasure here, let it be forgotten.  It would be worse than useless if people came here seeking earthly treasure.  We have a heavenly one, and we must not become distracted with things of this world.  Wickedness makes one worthless - if that is the diamond in the stories, it is an evil thing. Let it be buried and forgotten." They all agreed with Paul's statement, and Simon was buried with the diamond under his dead body, hidden in a hole in the rock. Not even his family knew of the diamond.  He had wandered away from the settlement and become lost. They had searched for him but only after five days did they find him.\par
"So this is the judgement of God on him?"\par
"I never said that.  Nor does it reflect anything about God's grace on him, to complete the picture. Or that he himself had become useless.  Simon was very useful and I will miss him greatly.  It is a warning, I think, about earthly riches and how tempting they can be."\par
"So you are saying the stone tempted him and he fell?"\par
"I don't know what he was doing with it.  I know that some things simply should not be messed with."  Everyone knew their warfare was not with flesh and blood but with the unseen, and many people, coming here for the first time, found it difficult to pray until they rebuked the enemy and he fled from them.  They had an enemy.  Many thought he was somewhere to the south of them if in any direction at all.  Others thought the direction was north, and some east.  Paul dismissed these direction ideas as fatuous - spiritual beings did not have location, so they could not have a specific direction, in his belief. Others argued that they could be cast out, so they must have location, and the idea that spirits did not have dimensions, including location, was something to be found in scholastic theology rather than in Scripture. Paul knew something was out there but the Lord deserved all their attention and obedience.  If they needed to anything more, He would tell them.  \par
It was such a common experience that people coming into the property were told it might happen, and how to deal with it.  It had been happening less and less as time went on.  \par
  \par
\par
}
 