{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9\par
\b Tuesday, January 23 1978\par
 \b0\par
"I hope we have had all the winter we will have. We have prevailed!" Daniel said."We have the victory over old man winter. Hallellujah!"\par
"See that sky up ahead?" John pointed to the dark grey band that stretched across the prairie,  at this point miles away and only visible at the top of a rise.  There weren't any real hills here, just very gentle rises when there was anything, somewhere between being pancake flat and rolling prairie.\par
"Yep."\par
"That reminds me of a blizzard."\par
"I am from Florida.  I wouldn't know."  Suddenly Daniel looked very young to John.   There was something about that answer that John made a mental note to follow through on sometime.  Had he never learned anything about blizzards or winter? Most Epper settlements, even those in Florida, were descendent from northern European settlements and there were plenty of stories about winter.  \par
"This may teach you to respect winter. You never turn your back on it.  Your coat is warm? Do you have gloves, and a hat, and thick pants and insulated boots?"\par
"They are in my tent."\par
"I think you will need them shortly. Don't be caught out without them in December, no matter how nice the weather is.  Winter can bite hard."\par
John asked the question he had been asking everyone: "Why are you here?" He'd been asking it for months of people who had been here for years and of yesterday's arrival. He was not satisfied with the lack of clarity, the lack of motive, the lack of purpose in people's lives. \par
"Dunno," Daniel answered.  He'd been asked before, repeatedly, and John had shot down his answers. Every one of them.\par
"If you knew, what would you say?"\par
"I guess I had nowhere else to go."\par
"Yeah, that seems to be my answer, too."\par
"Really?"\par
"Really.  But when we are born we have no choice as to when or where or to whom or how. We just show up.  With age, we are supposed to discover purpose in life."\par
"Well, there is the old 'to glorify God and enjoy Him forever' -  that's what I have heard. That is why we are here."\par
"Yeah, but I am big on the details.  \i How\i0   are we to do that?  Individually, and corporately, how do we help each other do that individually?  We have more ex-Eppers here than anywhere in the world, but we don't have anything resembling a training program or an adult school. No seminary, no Bible college, no certificate program.  And I don't see that changing. Is God speaking in that perception? It seems He is shutting ALL the doors: no, no. no, no, no! no, no and NO.  Sometimes I wonder if any doors will be open at the end of this."\par
"In the Sound of Music they say when God shuts the door He opens the window."\par
"Yeah. It may come down to that.  Jake Profim should be here soon - he has a hiatus in  his preaching schedule and he promised me some time while he is here.  He wants to see the place. It's been a while."\par
"Wow! I didn't know he was coming! I think some people come here thinking he is speaking every morning, noon and night, and they want to sit at his feet and drink of his wisdom. Only he is hardly ever here.  That drew me here. I am over it now."\par
"Are you?"\par
"Yep."\par
"You were pretty steamed for a while about it."\par
"I was.  And I found other people who were, and we reinforced each other.  Then one day I said this has got to stop, I am getting too negative.  So I got away from those people and found people who -  well, who had a better attitude."\par
"Yeah. We are all born in various circumstances.  Make lemonade from your lemons, and all that. Here is a lemon for you." John pointed at the signs at the turn-off from the county road, or rather, its end, where the road into the property began, exchanging one kind of gravel for another. "Welcome to Profim Properties," the sign said, and another said, simply, "Jn 3:16".  Another said "Refuge City, USA - A Light in the Darkness".  They were all handlettered with varying levels of skill. "Come, O Lord Jesus" was done particularly well. "People of Christ" was bad enough that John wished he could order it taken down, but he had to find whoever had put it up.  Perhaps they had left, but he had bigger worries. He was careful about unilateral action, because there would be unintended consequences.  Better to build bridges: get whoever put the sign up to either replace it with a better one, or take it down."  \par
John eyed the sky again. He turned to Daniel. "I have got to talk to Carolyn.  You need to get the tents ready. I think it is going to be a bad one, but I really need to talk to her.  See what you can do while I go talk to her."\par
They parked.  Daniel began telling people to close up their tents and pointing to the west, although from among the tent city you could not yet see the weather coming. People shrugged their shoulders and slowly did as asked.  Daniel was young and they thought he was being bossy.  It was a little cooler, so it made sense to get coats in from where they had been laid in the sun and lower tent sides.  They had had several hours of fresh air, after all. They responded a little better when he started telling them it was John's idea.  They respected John.\par
John passed a crew of men who were taking down tents that were now abandoned. His heart sank as he realized the Pfeilers had left. And the Adams. Good, hardworking people who had been the backbone.  The fat was all gone, the muscle and bone was being sliced into. How long would this place last? Until God called them elsewhere. And where would they go?   He was convinced he was where God had called him.  Matthew Adams had said the same thing, not a week ago. Now his family had packed up and gone. Gone where? They were from Maryland, he thought.  Would they see 6,000 this coming summer? Was it a passing fad or was God really building something here?  Jake's schedule was less than it had been and it was good there were fewer people: their support was down from outside.  John knew he had to get the place self-supporting: a worse storm than any winter storm.\par
Carolyn was in the prefab kitchen/dining hall, a building that John did not care for.  It had been "gifted" and assembled by people who had come in and had now left.  John didn't like its construction: steel frame, sheet metal sides and roof.  He much preferred solid Epper construction but he selected his fights.  Carolyn was looking at soup pots, counting things, guiding the large kitchen and dining crews. .   \par
"Carolyn, we have a storm coming," John said, and kissed her.\par
"Always good news, huh?"\par
"I think it is a bad one. There's more.  The next food truck has been delayed because of weather."\par
"That's bad.  I have bad news, too.  Lois is down with this sickness that is going around." Lois was her girl Friday, her right arm, a bright, industrious hard working ex-Epper who kept going from before dawn until midnight day in and day out, and would cheerfully do anything asked of her, and more besides.  \par
"How many have left today?"\par
"We had four hundred and fifty at breakfast, but only three hundred and fifty at lunch."\par
"That's not good. I was thinking we were just under five hundred."\par
"There is worse.  We only have one hundred fifty pounds of potatoes. How can I feed them all? For more than one meal? How is it possible? May God part the Red Sea again."\par
"He is in the business. You can't feed them all.  You can only do what you can.  'God will have to provide the ram for the burnt offering'."\par
"Yes, I know. A test of faith and all that.  I think I spend too much time looking through the wrong end of the telescope. The now end, not the finished end."\par
"There is more.  DFS has opened an investigation against us for how we are taking care of the kids.  They will be visiting.  I could not get ahold of Jake. "\par
"What is DFS?"\par
"Division of Family Services.  State of Missouri. Our school is unaccredited and the kids are regarded as truant. And our living conditions.  I try, and then I try.  So few have the skills to bring it up to where it needs to be. "\par
"Oh, John.  And so many people are sick."\par
"Has Doctor Herzenstube been here?"\par
"Yes, he has looked at people, but he says he can make nothing of it. I think it is viral. You cough, you lie down, you grow weaker and weaker, and several days later you get up. Or there is the version where you shake and shiver, fever and nausea.  Some get both."\par
"Hey, sport," his six year old son, Phero, came over and hugged him. John talked to him for a minute, and Phero went back to dribbling a basketball away from the tables.  The 'extra' tables had been taken up and put in storage.  There was a lot of empty space, space growing daily. John turned to Carolyn. \par
"Well, we have a weather-type storm on us. Serious.  A blizzard.  Get what you can inside and make sure you are ready.  I have got to do some things, some running around. I can't stay."  Carolyn  called her people into a little circle.  They nodded. Potato soup. Prepare for a blizzard.  They were all hard-working ex-Eppers, and some of them had been through blizzards. Eppers often settled in far-off places where they would be left alone, in places no one else wanted to be, some of which were prone to blizzards.  There were more Eppers presently in North Dakota than anywhere else, in little settlements of 200 or so people, scattered in rural areas, trying to be unnoticed by the wider world.   \par
John went outside.  People had disregarded Daniel. John started giving orders, despite himself, despite all warnings.  There was no time.  The grey band to the west was in sight and the wind was picking up. Although it was still warm, it was overcast and there was something in the air that said things were going to change.\par
"Daniel, go to town. It's only two miles so I think there is time.  Get what you can from the grocery store and bring it back. We are low on food. If it is too bad to drive in, find somewhere and ride out the storm." ." Daniel nodded, got his keys and turned to leave.\par
"Don't forget your coat and hat and gloves," John reminded him  He had forgotten, and got those things. Daniel thought the worst thing that happened when it got cold was that iguanas fall out of trees. \par
People were rolling down tent sides and tying them.  John pointed to the old, low stone wall and told people to weigh down the west sides of their tents with the rocks along the hem, along the other sides if they had time.  \par
"Sorry, we are leaving," the Olsons told him.  They had been there a long time, since before the Cassells.  They had been pillars of the place, there from the beginning almost.  They had been enthusiastic about the Refuge City when others had given up hope.  If they were leaving...\par
"Good-bye. I am sorry, but I understand." They shook hands. They had taken down their tent and stored things, which was decent of them.  Many people simply abandoned everything, left a mess for others to clean up, and took off without saying anything. \par
This was a change: a car John did not recognize came slowly down the driveway, and a man parked it neatly next to his own.  He stepped out. "Is this the Profim place? Anyway that is what the sign said. I thought I would stop by and see it. My name's Paul. Paul Bread." \par
He showed John a chicken in its plastic wrap, fresh from the store. "I thought I would stay a meal, and then head back north to Minnesota. I didn't want to come empty handed, so I brought this.  That store in Nicholls hardly has anything - people have cleared it out.  People are talking about a really bad storm coming."\par
"That is very generous of you.  We are actually very short on food right now, and as you can see," he pointed west, "the storm is coming.  It is much on my mind."\par
"Yes. It is on my mind as well. I'll help you however I can."\par
There was a sudden burst of wind, and then the wind was in the west, a cold wind, but there was no snow yet. It was colder than it had been a minute before.  John and Paul made sure that the children were inside the tents and that rocks were being placed as needed. The tent take down crew was moving rocks after securing their own tents.   John checked that all flaps were down on all the tents, scooted the kids inside, watched the cloud near them, an ominous white-grey swirling wall that reared up to high overhead, like a massive threatening wave. The tents were staked into rock and all the poles had been reinforced a long time ago. These tents were all one tent on top of another with straw between the layers and ropes tying them together wherever they could. \par
There was a stronger burst of wind, and this was colder yet, a biting warning if ever there was, and it carried  the first snow flakes. The wind was picking up and the snow was coming. They had to lean into the wind somewhat, and there were short, sharp bursts that made standing difficult.\par
"Come with me," John had to shout.  It was a lot quieter and warmer in the dining hall. They gave Carolyn the chicken.\par
"One chicken? I mean, thank God, but O, John," she said,"how is one chicken going to be enough to feed some many? Each will get soup, and we will make sure those who are sick have meat in their soup."\par
"That sort of question has been asked before," Paul said, and smiled. "How is so little to feed so many?"\par
"The feeding of the five thousand," Carolyn said.  She sighed,"I am such a Martha."\par
"This is the land of milk and honey, the city of miracles, the refuge city," Paul said.\par
Carolyn almost bit her tongue. "Stay a while and you will see," she finally said. \par
The wind was now shaking the corrugated roof and punching the sides of the buidling. \par
"It should be strong enough," John said. He set about rigging ropes outside for people for later, when the storm really hit and you needed the rope to find the tents or the dining facility.  John thought of a snowstorm as something that lasted days, and this one gave him that feeling.  But he had not heard of a storm that lasted that long this far south.  People further north had stories, but no one in Nicholls had ever spoken of a storm lasting more than a few hours.\par
John came back in and looked at the roof and walls vibrating with the wind. "It should be strong enough," he said with less conviction than he would have liked, but there is really no way we can strengthen it.\par
"Carl," he said to a young man,"Find a rope and tie one end to the north door here, and the other end to the south stable door. We may need it later."\par
There was a coil of very long rope that would do just the thing. While Carl paid out the rope, his buddy held the coil.  Finally Carl came back in and they tied the near end of the rope.\par
Carl shook the snow off and out. "Brrrrrrr," he added, with a grin. "The other end is tied with a bowline to a column not three feet from the door, and past that there is a loose six feet of rope for you to find the door with."\par
"Excellent, Carl," John told him. \par
"Reminds me of home," Paul said cheerfully, "Nice winter day.  Northern Minnesota."\par
"Time for another round of the tents." John and Paul went back out.\par
Jane, five years old, was standing outside, staring at the storm.  John picked her up and took her to her parents' tent,  the heater in the middle on high. Her mother was relieved - when had she slipped out? When he opened the flap to go back out the wind blew snow hard into the tent, and he had to fight his way out.  Who else was about? He kept one hand on a tent or a rope and walked around, looking for people outside, Paul with him, checking rocks, checking ropes, checking tents. So far, so good with the tents. The snow was now horizontal and you could see fifty feet.  He doubted that Daniel would be able to make it back from town. \par
"I doubt he will make it back either," Carolyn agreed,"Well, we have chicken and potato soup for supper, thanks to you, sir."\par
Paul smiled. "Whatever I can do to help.  I love to listen to Jake Profim.  One of the greatest preachers of our day.  Is he here? Just asking. I know he travels."\par
"He's on the road."\par
"So who is running the place?" \par
John and Carolyn looked at each other. "We are waiting on him to make that decision.  He travels, you know.  A lot of people look at him as the apostle and so his decision carries weight."\par
Carolyn added,"I'm handling the community cooking for now.  Jeannie usually handles it, but she and her husband are both ill.  We had too many fires in the tents to have people doing their own cooking there.  People take turns at cooking and dishes and setup and so forth.  You are a guest, so I won't put you to work."\par
"And can she put people to work? And how!" John laughed.  The wind was loud against the walls and roof.  \par
"John's been organizing things, but he is in no official capacity."\par
"Well, persuasion can go a long way."\par
Just then the roof gave a long raspberry. They laughed. \par
Outside again they found that several unoccupied tents had blown away, leaving cots and the central heating unit exposed to the wind.  They went further, and here was a family whose tent had blown away, leaving them in the snow.  The father was in his sleeping bag, shaking with fever, the others were dully watching the snow fly, falling asleep, wrapped in coats and blankets and sleeping bags. They were the Wilsons, John recalled, from the Chicago suburbs, not Eppers, but who had come in search of the Refuge City but really didn't do a whole lot.  Now they needed rescuing. They had not even lit the kerosene heater.  Probably they had not reinforced their tent.  They were simply unready.  If he had not come along...\par
It would be Wilson, known to John as a chronic complainer and bringer of worthless suggestions. Only yesterday he had told John what they needed was a suggestion box - that would fix problems around there.  John explained that there were no plans for one, and Wilson walked off, angry that his idea had been shot down.  It was the last in a long string of them: he had been pushing for them to build a tv station there, and before then it was intramural sports, and before then a fishing pond.  It would be one thing if he was willing to pitch in and work, but he wasn't.  He saw himself as a visionary who left the work to others, and at the same time regarded anyone who asked him to help around the place as bossy. He also didn't understand why it was taking so long to get things done: an overall lack of competence, vision, godliness Apparently he spent most of his time complaining to other people. \par
This sort of thing was what made being an unofficial administrator difficult.  People tended to listen to Wilson.  Had John actually officially been the administrator, this would have been dealt with rather quickly.  Wilson saw himself as vying with John as administrator.\par
 Inwardly John had hoped Wilson and his family had left, but here they were, shattering the idea that all those who were staying were wonderful people.  John knew that Wilson's wife did not want to be there, and neither did his two children: he had had a loud fight or two with his wife, settled by Elder Berg, who was providing marriage counseling.  The kids were trouble, picking fights and cutting tents, among other things.  Wilson didn't discipline them.   They have not been asked to leave because his wife was now involved in working in the health clinic, being an LPN. Wilson had been an insurance adjuster before moving down here and would not sign up for any work that needs doing.  After fifteen minutes with a pick one day, breaking rock, he "became tired" and went and laid down in his tent for the rest of the day.  He also thought they should get rock picks and jack hammers instead of breaking rock by hand.  \cf1  \cf0 Things would be much better if Wilson was in charge, but people were senseless, blind and deaf to the Holy Ghost, so Wilson said. No one was listening to him, which bothered him immensely. Some were listening to him, which bothered John more than he would like.\par
"Get up!" John yelled.  He had seen many of these people who would do nothing when their families were in danger.    John put his coat on him as he rose, , handed him one of the kids, and Paul and he took the rest back to the dining hall, where they all sat and looked dull again, although they were now out of the snow, and there was some heat.  The wind picked up and howled against the metal roof, shaking it. He would probably leave and write various people an angry letter. So what. John had saved his life.  His wife saw Dr. Herzenstube arrived, and she assisted the doctor without being asked. Funny, John thought, I only know his last name. What is her name, and the kids' names? \par
"Frostbite?" This was Dr. Herzenstube    John left before he could hear any answers from the Wilsons.  He had other worries, and there was a certain amount of unhealthy anger rising in him.  He needed to channel it. \par
John and Paul went out again.  Several empty tents flew by, looking like bats in the wind and disappearing in the east. John was struck by how many were empty. They had been trying to keep up with it by removing empty tents, but hadn't gotten there.  Many of the remaining tents were now surrounded by patches of bare ground, the blowing snow emphasizing the sense of desolation, abandonment and hopelessness that John was encountering.\par
 Back in the dining hall they dropped off another family.  Their tent had been filling with snow, despite the kerosene heater. They were simply, dumbly, numbly led to the dining hall.  John was certain there were others out there. \par
"Let's get some tents set up in here with heaters," John said, "but don't light the heaters. I don't like the way the wind sounds.  I am afraid we may lose this building."\par
"Oh, John," Carolyn responded. "I will get people to set  up and reinforce." There was plenty of room - the dining hall was far larger than presently needed and there were more kitchen staff than were really needed - it seemed like those left were those who had been working the hardest, so Carolyn really had lost very few people.\par
"Are you sure of this?' John asked Paul.\par
"Like a spring day back home," Paul smiled. \par
Again John and Paul patrolled the tents, checking on people, telling them of the ropes, giving instructions and answering questions.  Everyone decided to go to the dining hall, as it was at least a permanent structure and should keep the snow out. Besides, that is where the food was.  John made sure all the tents were empty and as secure as possible as he could, although wind and snow were determined to find their way inside.\par
It was now getting dark, and the snow was still horizontal. It found its way into all the tents, which now were snowpacked on the west: a good thing, that. Some people tried riding out the storm in their tents, silently bundled up, sitting on their cots, gathered around the heater, praying. \par
John lost count of the number of times he had been around and through the tent city, but each time he had found someone in need of help. Finally he heard the gong that indicated dinner was ready. It had been First Shift, but now the only shift.  They would eat together.\par
And they did.  There were three hundred and twenty five by Carolyn's count and the number of bowls and glasses and spoons.  That matched John's count of everyone present, excepting those known to be in the houses.  Each house had received a visit from him. There was plenty of snow-melt water, and potato soup. One quarter potato per person. One chicken for three hundred and twenty five. Add salt and pepper. A cup of water. \par
People lined up at the tables in their heavy coats, nervously looking up at the loud roof. From time to time a little smoke of snow would find its way in through some corner or crack. The sick were already sitting, and some were lying down on cots that had been brought in earlier. Carolyn asked John to say grace, and he did.\par
It bothered Carolyn immensely that she got a piece of chicken in her soup: a full drumstick. It was not right that she should, when so many must not have.  She took her soup to the first sick person she saw, who was Lois. Lois had meat in hers: in fact, she had the other drumstick. The next person had the breast.  Carolyn being Carolyn, she asked everyone. Everyone had a major portion of the chicken. No one was without a piece of chicken.  \par
"Who brought the chicken, and when had it gone into the pot?" Carolyn had been there the whole time.  She had seen everything that had gone into the pots, everything that had been prepared.  She was very concerned about this, about people going hungry, and this meal was not balanced.  But it was they best they could do.\par
She asked everyone.  Paul was the only one who admitted to bringing a chicken. Only one chicken had gone into the pot, but everyone had gotten some.  There was excitement about this - God was with them, God had heard their prayers, God had provided for them, and would again. They were not alone in the world. \par
Luke Pol, the worship leader led them in song: 'Now thank we all our God', and 'A mighty fortress' and many other hymns, the old hymns beloved by the Eppers. Some of the newer people only knew the current charismatic songs and tried to sing along.  The wind picked up and the building shook. There was a banging sound.  John located it at the top of the east wall, as snow would come in as a cloud before the cladding banged back. \par
"We are losing the wall! Get your coats on!" They did. There was some noise.\par
"Quiet! It is  important that you listen to me!"\par
"Who are you, any way?" John couldn't see who had said that. Wilson, maybe. If so, no one would listen.  Were there others like him left? John didn't know. Stupid question at the wrong time. It had to be Wilson. Just had to be.\par
"Someone with sense. Now listen, we need to get to the stable. I am sure Jake won't mind. There is hay there.  Everyone needs to take something in one hand and hold onto the rope with the other. The rope is tied to the stable door.  I could find it from here with my eyes shut, which I won't need to do. You could easily get there from here any day. We need to move before dark.  Put your silverware and your cup in your pockets. Don't worry about whether it is dirty, just do it. Lick it off. Some of you need to grab corners of the cots - we need to move the sick. Now, line up.  We need to take everything we can."  He took the end of the rope that led out the door, and after some further exhortations, people did line up, one gloved hand on the rope, most holding something else in the other hand. \par
"There's more room in the hangers, and they are better built."  People looked at John uncertainly.\par
"And there's no heat there, and they are further away.  And we have a rope path to the stable. We don't have a way of finding the hanger. And there is water in the stable.  Luke - take last position. Make sure they all make it."\par
Two people behind was Janice Boom, her eyes wide with fear, the rest of her face and head wrapped up. She was a teenager.  She had come over the summer, hearing it was like Woodstock, coming for sex and drugs.  Instead she had found Christ and had stuck around. \par
"Don't be afraid! Follow me to safety!" Janice was the first to begin moving and others followed her and John. People started moving toward the stable.  John made sure they found the rope and went.   Some corner of his mind filed away the fact she was a leader. He wanted her on his staff.  He would train her, his mind went on even as he was shouting to the people.\par
He said more, but it was not heard because the east wall suddenly tore completely off and the roar of the wind, and the incoming snow, shouted him down.  He looked back.  Some people were clutching potatoes. People were ready with the cots. There were that many sick?   He pushed that out of his mind.  They were ready.  Good. It was a good quarter mile to the stable from here. Carolyn had the pots. Children were in arms or were being held by the hands by parents. Hats and coats and gloves were on.  Nobody was wandering around. Even the Wilsons were holding the rope. \par
"Let's move," he shouted, and began moving, not that he was heard, what with the wind.  He opened the door and it slammed open, then slammed shut, then open again.  It would take two people at a time to keep it open.   Before he was out the door he looked back, and everyone was there. Snow was filling the dining hall, blowing in circles, settling, drifting, being stirred up in the wind blasts. Part of the roof on the east end suddenly lifted and there was only snowfall in its place. \par
He could barely see.  He prayed he would find the way.  The snow was blowing and the ground, thankfully, was clear, so he had his landmarks as he help the rope.  Every so often he looked back, and everyone was there.  He had no idea what he would have done if they weren't.  After the second time he looked back the rope was disappearing into the whiteness, and he walked slowly, as the rope had a certain resistance.  It seemed like the longest quarter mile of his life and he was wondering if he had turned off the path, where the ground would be harder and people would almost certainly stumble.  He thought of the vast ocean of prairie. Really, there was nothing between here and the Rocky Mountains, or between here and the North Pole, or south to the Rio Grande, except scattered cities, lost in the vastness. He was a very small person in the huge wastes, now full of snow roaring and swirling around them.  This seemed to last forever, his left hand on the rope, his right hand seeking to feel ahead, to keep his eyes shaded so he could see. He prayed for guidance, for his feet to find the path.  How literal were his prayers, he thought. \par
Something blew past him, a vague green shadow, a cot that someone had tried to bring. No cots would make it to the stable.  It was probably in Kansas by now, he thought.  \par
The longest minutes of his life followed.  What if the other end of the rope had come loose and it was caught somewhere else, like on the fence around the old farmhouse? But nothing to do but grit his teeth and press on.  That seems to be my motto, he thought to himself. And it went on and on, step after step in the flowing snow, one hand on the rope, the other pressing snow against his nose to avoid frostbite.  It was white all around him.  He turned and behind him the long grey line faded into the whiteness, each hunched over, holding the rope, unseeing, just walking.  He would have to count them when they got to the stable.\par
He bumped into something.  It was the wall of the stable.  Five feet to the left was the door, but it was locked.  Locked? Jake never locked anything.  It must be frozen shut.  He shook it and suddenly it loosened, and he almost fell as it opened.  He helped Janice, who stood there, shaking snow, big-eyed and shivering.\par
"Help people get in and move to the back," John told her. She moved off a few feet, shook the snow off, and returned and began helping John get people through the door.  Everyone, it seemed, as they came in, wanted to stop and shake snow off in the doorway itself if not just right inside.  But they were blocking people behind them.\par
So people would go ten feet, shake off the snow, and wander around the dim stables, and then come back.  It was getting dark, and they were all dim, cold forms in the snow.\par
People who had been in helped other people to come in, brushing the snow and urging them, leading them, to come in further.\par
"Did we lose anyone?" he shouted when Luke made it through the door.  Luke looked at him in surprise and pulled the door shut. It took three people to latch it and there was now less snow and wind and noise.\par
"Count off," he said, and on the third try he was convinced everyone was there. All three hundred and forty-three.  Something was wrong with that number.  He had them count off again. Now the count was three hundred and forty-two. The stable was full of people, from end to end.  It took a few minutes to determine a few people had decided this counting thing was stupid, and had counted themselves twice or more.  There were also several people who had not eaten with them but had abandoned their tents after the meal, and had joined them in the dining hall.\par
"I want to know if anyone counts twice," John said,"This is important.  Your life may depend on it. If someone near you counts themselves twice, shout "'False'. Ok, let's try again."\par
Three hundred and thirty one.  It was crowded but you could move around. John and Luke looked at each other. Without a word Luke left, walking down the rope again to see if there was anyone else.  He vanished into the snow.  They latched the door behind him.\par
Outside the storm roared.  Little snow was making it in. With all the people, it was actually getting warm.\par
"So where is this straw you were talking about?" somehow Wilson was in John's face.\par
"Probably upstairs. Here is the ladder." \par
"I don't think there is straw here, " Wilson said, "That would be a fire hazard and Jake would not get insurance on the building. I think it is elsewhere. If there is any."\par
John climbed the ladder and took out his pen flashlight.  The loft was empty. It also was additional space.\par
"People can move up there. That will give us more room and we can set up a kitchen at one end."  One stall was practically full of cots and tents and blankets that had been stored here. Who or when or how that had been done escaped him.  \par
Luke was back. "I found no one.  All the walls are gone on the dining hall. All of them.  Just the frame is left."\par
People started getting cots and passing them up into the lot, and setting them up in the empty stalls.  John looked in every stall - the other stalls were all empty. There were rooms with signs: tack room, feed room, equipment room, office. There was a small restroom that was in use.\par
Wilson came out. "There's no water, and the toilet is stopped up," he said.  John was developing a real hatred.  "Is there a plunger?"\par
"Yes," Wilson said,"But I didn't want to break anything." Someone went in and worked on the toilet.\par
There was no water.  John thought to himself there must be a well with a pump somewhere, meaning there was electricity.  Find the circuit breakers, flip the power on, and they would have light and water.  But where?\par
Wilson was tagging along, "I want my family to have their own stall. We need privacy."\par
There was the grey circuit breaker box in the equipment room, next to, oh joy, a water heater that fed the wash stall.  Jake had spared no expense.  And here was a furnace, just waiting to be brought to life.  John took out his little flashlight and happily opened the circuit breaker box.  There was the master switch in the off position. John happily flipped it.  Nothing happened. \par
Why was Wilson there?  "Probably the power is out, what with the storm."  Wilson, always useful.\par
John tried the switch again, looked around to see if there was any other information.\par
"Probably someone forgot to put in a generator, even though it would be flattering to call this place rural,"  Wilson made it clear others never thought things through. Unlike some.\par
Generator.  There was a big one, out by the the future manure pile.  Jake had spared no expense on the stable.  It was fifty feet from the stable.  John knew exactly where  it was, and he also knew he could get lost now looking for it. And once he found it, could he start it? And before then, what about the fence? It had a chain link fence around it.\par
If the key was anywhere, it was in this building.  John looked around the equipment room. He smiled.  Bless Joyce the scrounge. Joyce the pack rat.  This was where she stashed her treasures, ready to reveal them when called on.  Here was a small generator on three wheels. What else was here? Cases of spam! Several cases of canned spaghetti! Dried peas and dried fruit, even salt pork that she had found at some discount store. John knew she would have told him about this, if she had been there, but she was out somewhere, scrounging. Hopefully safely out of the storm.  There was even fuel for the generator.  Joyce probably had put the cots and blankets here.  She was safe in her house in Nicholls, he hoped.\par
Soon the generator was sitting outside, cables snaking through the doors, chugging away. They had water but there were enough of them that the place was warm enough that they did not need the furnace. \par
"I hate spam," Wilson said, and disappeared into the crowds, presumably to find his family in his shared horse stall.  John gave thanks for food and water and shelter and warmth.\par
In fact, they all did.  The storm lasted three days.  John organized meals and sleeping arrangements.  They mostly huddled and listened to the storm.  During calm John and others told the old stories, the stories from the Bible, the stories of Epper settlements that spanned from France to east of the Urals and south to the Alps and Carpathians and the Black Sea, most of which those in America lost contact with during the War and never heard from them again.  Most of the Russian Eppers in the United States had left Russia during the Revolution but many Eppers had not left.  John described Epper settlements and Epper life: new to many there who had questions about Epper life.  Luke led them in worship morning, noon and night, the old a capella hymns before Eppers were willing to use instruments.  \par
Wilson spent most of his time sitting with his face to the wall.\par
On the third day the sun came out on the bright drifts.  Some people went out the north side doors and looked at the drift on the west side of the stable.  Sharp-edged, it towered over the stable but beyond it the snow was not more than a foot or so deep, except in the drifts. In some places the ground was even exposed, like on the east side.  Many people went out and enjoyed the sunshine, stretched, and then returned for the afternoon worship.\par
John looked south.  Luke had been correct: all the walls and roof of the dining hall had blown away, out of sight, and all the tents were flattened under the storm. There were little mounds under the snow in many places.  There were snowdrifts against the hanger.   \par
"It is a long way from the dining hall to the hangers," came from a bundled-up group of people standing with him.  He nodded.\par
 \par
 When Jake Profim heard about the storm, he thought of the people on his property trying to weather it in tents.  He canceled some meetings and hurried back.  He and Pastor Schmidt, his good friend from Nicholls, went out in a four-wheel drive truck and silently looked over the snow covered remnants of tents, imaging them full of bodies. In silence they saw the bones of the dining hall, with all the walls and roof blown away.  Jake picked up a child's glove in the wreckage of the dining hall, shook the snow off and wept, feeling responsible for the deaths of so many.  Pastor Schmidt was opening his mouth to console him when they heard the sound of singing, and they found the stable full of people, singing and giving praise to God. \par
--------------------------\par
   \par
\par
\par
\par
}
 