{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 11:30 PM Sunday, May 4, 1986  John\par
\b0 John sat in the circle with twelve others, all dressed in linen.  None had bathed for weeks and the undyed material testified to their living outside in the same clothes, and sleeping in the same.  They were ascetics.  He had come to the Ranch to join the People of Praise, but they had disbanded before he had arrived.  There were still people from the People of Praise around, although some had left.  John had applied to join the Elijah Prophetic School, modeled after the Old Testament School of the Prophets.  It was still under review from the Council of Twelve, and John understood there were some tensions already forming with them.  Daniel was the leader - no one used last names - with his fiery eyes, wild hair and long beard.  He looked wilder in the firelight with only the night behind him.  There was no breeze.  They were miles from anyone else, south of Snake Woods and the stars were brilliant. The moon was not yet up.  John had learned that you could still see a lot by starlight if you let your eyes grow used to it.  Daniel, however, was the only one who could read by starlight.  And he had the whole Bible memorized, so he seldom read.  He quoted, sometimes at length. \par
"The Lord wants a holy people to Himself," Daniel intoned. And he listed a long list of sins that he thought people had committed and that people should repent of.  Pride, rebellion, divisiveness, lust, greed were on the list. "Repent of your sins, everyone. Spend some time listing them, and seek the forgiveness of the Lord!"\par
And there was silence.  John dare not fall asleep, despite his lack of sleep, as that would be the sin of sloth.  He desperately tried to think of any sin he had committed, but none came to mind.  Was he that hardened a sinner? He prayed for forgiveness. He was still new at this.  Daniel and Paul had lived this way for years, in all weathers, and went without shoes.  John was allowed sandals, as he was still probationary. Tomorrow would mark his first full week here.  He had already learned to ignore the flies as well as whatever insects chose to crawl in his clothes and bite.  The horsefly bites had been the hardest.  Skin hardened, he had been told, and Daniel looked as if he was made out of tough, bug-resistant leather.  As the newest member he was never to speak unless spoken to, and to keep his eyes on the ground as a mark of humility when he was passing anyone.  There were other rules, such as never looking directly at a woman.  As the newest member he also carried the food-box and whatever other supplies they took with them.  The rules were not formalized but instead he was taught them as time went on.  Those were the ones he was working on. That, and an anger towards authority when it seemed unreasonable, dictatorial or harsh. God gives us people to obey, that we would learn to obey Him.  So Daniel had told him.  But the silence continued.\par
Then Mary, one of the more mature members, sang a tongue.  There was another silence.  Peter said, "the Lord gives sleep to his beloved, and the Lord is good, and His mercy is everlasting." From a very few comments John had guessed that Peter and Mary had been husband and wife, but now were as brother and sister.  But John's place was not to ask questions, or to offer comments.   He was to speak only when spoken to, and when he spoke, to keep it to a minumum.\par
There was a hum of agreement. "Very good, Peter," Daniel said, "I confirm that was the Word of the Lord.  I think we are to catch some sleep."  So they rolled out their blankets and wrapped themselves in them against the night. John had learned to not wrap his head in the blanket to keep the bugs off, and to sleep with their intrusions.  At least there were no mosquitoes here. \par
In the night someone began to sing:"We empty ourselves to be filled with You, we silence ourselves to hear Your voice, we go hungry to be fed by You, we suffer to be comforted by You, we live alone to be in the happy fellowship of the Trinity, we deprive ourselves to be blessed by You, not that this makes us better, not that this makes us wiser, for all things are from Christ and through Christ and in Christ, and we know we are worse than others, the least of all..." The song, in Koine, went on and John lost track of it.\par
They were led by the Spirit, and they walked by the Spirit.  Where He told them to go, they went, and they ate and slept and stood and laid down when and where He directed them. There was a closeness of Christ in them and them in Christ that they were living out, and John was in awe of Daniel.  John desired to hear the Lord as the others did, but he never did.  Perhaps he wasn't good enough, he thought, and he prayed as he fell asleep.\par
John found himself in a wide green country with hills and woods. Downhill was a laughing brook that he could not see through the trees.  It was bright daylight, although the sky was solid gold. John was walking along  and he was joined by another who held a shepherd's crook. He reminded John of Daniel, with a keen eye and an air of authority. "Come with me, I wish to show thee something," the man said, in Koine, which John knew well enough, though not as well as some.  And the rest of the dream was all in Koine, which John understood.  Here, however, it was much clearer, as clear as English.\par
They came to a pit.  They approached it, and it was rock-walled and deep as a well although wider. In it was a man who was trying to climb out but could not. "Do you want help?" John called, and the man said, "I must do this myself."  John looked at his guide, who said the man must find that he cannot climb out before anyone could help him, because otherwise he might get part way up and think he could do it, and so fall back and suffer greatly.  \par
So they walked on, and they came to a second pit, "like unto the pit the first".  And again there was a man in it, and John asked again, "Do you want help?" and the man said, "I do, and then I can make it the rest of the way."  But the guide shook his head and they walked on.   \par
They came to a third pit "like unto the other two pits, yet deeper and the walls had no holds at all, so that the walls could not be climbed", and in it was a dead man, a rotting corpse.  "Arise," called the guide. And the man arose in the pit and stood. "Do you need help?" John called, and the man replied, "Help, no. Deliverance, yes. I am unable to leave this pit."\par
And the guide reached down with his shepherd's crook and took the man and lifted him out of it.\par
Then John woke and sat up.  The fire was only coals and around it were the others, all asleep in two groups, the women and men apart from each other. He looked around at the night for a minute.  A thin crescent moon was just rising. The horizon told him where Nicholls was to the northeast, and Adrian, though smaller,  to the south.  He then went back to sleep.\par
He dreamed again, and in this dream there was a magnificent hall with marble pillars going down both sides.  A great king sat on a high throne at one end, and the courtiers stood in rows along the sides.  All were dressed in magnificent robes of many colors, with jeweled rings and headbands and neck-crescents made of gold and silver and other metals. Every few feet a guard in armor stood in polished armor and a helm, with a short black beard and a dread expression.  Each had a spear taller than himself, a shield on his back and a massive heavy sword at his side. Someone called from outside, and a short man at the foot of the throne said something to the king, and the king replied to the short man.  Then the short man called down the length of the hall, and two soldiers brought in a prisoner.  The prisoner's hands were bound before him but his elbows were kept in place by a stick that ran between them and his back.  The prisoner was shackled between his ankles and a hood covered his head. His clothes were torn and filthy, mere rags, really, that barely covered him\par
The guards guided the prisoner down the length of the hall, each holding one end of the stick that bound the prisoner's elbows behind him.  When they came immediately before the throne, the prisoner was made to kneel.\par
The king gestured, and the guards removed the prisoners hood.  The prisoner looked about him and his eyes rested on the king.\par
The king said something was said that John could not understand, and he realized it was in a language he  did not know.  The king and the prisoner looked at each other, the prisoner with a defiant attitude, obviously an enemy.\par
One of the guards unsheathed his sword as if to cut off the prisoner's head, but the king shook his head.  He said something, and the soldier sheathed his sword.  The prisoner was surprised.  The king rose and came down the steps and beckoned kindly to another servant, who was holding a magnificent robe.  The servant came forward and bent his knee as he bowed and gave the king the robe.\par
The king said something, and the guards removed the stick. He said something else, and they unbound his hands.  Then the king raised the prisoner to his feet, and the king embraced him, to the amazement of the prisoner.  He stood there as the king had water brought, and the king himself washed the prisoner and removed his filthy garments and clothed him in the magnificent robe. The prisoner was amazed and bowed before the king, and the king pointed at a place in the court and said something.  The ex-prisoner was walking towards it, and the king had begun climbing the steps back up to his throne, when the dream shifted, and there was a man drowning in a lake.\par
"Swim to shore!"  John shouted.  But the man seemed unable to hear him, or to swim, or to respond in any way.  Then the guide dove into the water and pulled the man out and laid him on the sand and, pushing all the water out of his lungs, gave him mouth to mouth resuscitation.  The man woke up, and John realized he himself was the man.\par
"Good morning, Lord," was the next thing he knew. "Form lines."  It was not yet fully dalight: there was light, but the sun was still below the horizon.  On the flat open prairie this was the only way for any privacy.  The six women walked a hundred paces in one direction, and the seven men walked a hundred paces in the opposite direction.  They formed a line with their backs to each other, and one at a time someone would go forward and perform whatever bodily function he or she needed to, with the others as a screen. Then that person would walk backwards and rejoin the line, and the men would shout "Give thanks to the Lord!".  To John it seemed forever before the women would reply with "For he is good forever and ever," the signal that they, too, were done, and the groups could reunite. But this morning their cry followed them men's cry immediately.\par
Daniel put his hand on John's shoulder. "Brother, I believe God gave you  dreams last night?" John nodded. "I would like you to share at breakfast."  Again he nodded. Wow.\par
John wasn't surprised at Daniel knowing.  \par
At breakfast, their one meal of the day at sunrise,  while they ate typically someone would read Scripture the Lord had given them.  They formed their circle again, this time away from the fireplace, on hard stone for ground.  John was getting used to it. And breakfast was a hard biscuit - so hard that you had to soak it in water to be able to chew or even break it - and water.   \par
Now Daniel thanked God for a new day and the sign of the resurrection of Christ, the sunrise, and for bread to break, and then he said,"Dear brothers and sisters, God has given John dreams last night.  And  he is to be called Joseph now, for he is a dreamer of dreames as both the ruler of Egypt was, and Daniel was, but I am called Daniel, and the husband of Mary the Holy Virgin was.  So we rename him, as we have forgotten the past and left our former things behind, even our names, that we might press on in Christ.  And with that, I would like Joseph to tell us the two dreams the good Lord has given Him.\par
So Joseph, formerly John, did so.  \par
Daniel said, "We will think on these dreams and what they mean. At sunset I would like to hear your thoughts - not yours, Joseph, for you are under silence today." Joseph nodded and looked at the ground to show his humble submission and docility.\par
 Reuben recited the book of Ephesians from memory.  Then they sang a hymn.  Daniel sent Reuben back for more water and bread.  Daniel led them in a long prayer that seemed to Joseph to be full of references he was not familiar with.   Then Daniel clapped his hands. Everyone silently turned around and walked to a count of two hundred, where they would spend the day, facing away from everyone else, in prayer and solitude.  They were allowed to stand, sit, or even lie down (as long as they did not sleep) but they were not allowed to look at anyone else.   \par
Joseph startled a rabbit as he found himself in some tall grass.  At the end of his count he sat, and the ground was soft.  There were ants and flies and birds.  It would be a long time until Daniel called them back together: the whole day, and the sun was barely clearing the horizon. Probably about 6:30 PM, Joseph thought, and sunset wasn't until after 8 PM.  He rebuked himself and worked on recalling the book of Ephesians from memory.\par
And so the day passed.  At some point Reuben would return and silently join the others unobtrusively.\par
Daniel called when the sun was still high, and they gathered again.  Here was Reuben again, and Dr. Herzenstube, and a nurse, Miss Greta.   The doctor had examined John when he had joined the group, to see if he was up to it, and here he was again.  John learned they were checked every month.  To his surprise he saw the doctor had a bicycle.  \par
The doctor looked them all over briefly, then Daniel sent them back to where they had been. Each would be called back for a few minutes and checked over by the doctor and the nurse, and then sent back to where they were.\par
The doctor and nurse were as silent as they could be and still do their job.  The doctor looked at all of John's bug bites and said there were no problems, but he needed to quit scratching. Daniel was in earshot but not looking, and John saw him  frown at this.  Daniel never scratched his bug bites.  Whatever could get through that skin, anyway, if anything could.  John would have to work on it more.  John's teeth were checked as well. Then John was sent back, the last to be examined, and the doctor and Daniel had a whispered conversation that John could not make out, even if he had wanted to.\par
The upshot of that was that everyone got a carrot for dinner, in addition to a hard roll and water, and they were made to brush and floss their teeth afterwards.  These things had arrived by bicycle.  The supplies were of course kept in the supply box, and John learned they would be brushing their teeth twice a day.\par
The next day started with a truck arriving about a mile away.  It had a big water tank, and everyone got a cold shower.  There were also clean clothes.  Daniel did not seem happy about any of this, but he explained those in authority had mandated it.  And he submitted to authority. So they would shower from now on, as often as the doctor directed.\par
Again  he was the last one, and he heard (he was facing away from those showering, of course) the gasps as people got hit with the cold water, the first time to lather up and the second time to rinse.  Daniel made no noise at all.  Neither did he say anything about those who exhibited less than ideal self control.\par
They walked back to their circle, fresh and clean, in their line, with John behind Peter at the front and Daniel at the end.  They came back and sat silently.  Daniel got out Gottlieb's \i Meditations on Mystical Theology \i0 and turned to where it read, "Great Light, Holy Light, Mighty Light, Fill the darkness of the hearts of your servants with the living bread of your Word, even as we eat bread.  Be our way, our truth and our life as we walk as pilgrims through the wilderness of this life.  Be our hope and our guide, let all else be as waste to us besides Thee.  There is no other light, no other way, no other hope save Christ alone."\par
"Amen," those permitted to speak said, and each received their hard biscuit, a cup of cold water, and half an apple.  John saw Reuben raise an eyebrow at Daniel.\par
"The good doctor thinks we need some vitamins.  So we eat fruit and we eat vegetables.  This is acceptable to him.  There is also a concern that the Ranch is supplying us with food, with land and with medical care, and we should be doing something to make it that we are not free-loading.  I have no idea what we could provide in exchange."\par
"Perhaps we could..." this was Mary.\par
"Yes, go on," Daniel encouraged her.\par
"I don't know.  I really don't."\par
"Yes. This is something we need to take to the Lord.  The Council of Twelve is also reluctant to allow us to stay out here in the winter.  I am from Miami,Florida.  My understanding is that winter can be harsh in Missouri. They suggested we return to the Ranch for three months a year, and work there in exchange for goods given to us.  Again, let us think about this. Listen to the Lord.  We will follow Him."\par
"Save or no, I will follow Thee, Lord," Mark said.  John recognized the Gottlieb quote. "Let my obedience be my reward, if none other; for duty is owed to Thee O God as the Creator first, and in hell it would be my duty to praise Thee, to follow Thee, and to obey Thee, if Thou wouldst be pleased to send me there, and I would rejoice in Thy glorious justice, even as I rejoice in Thy glorious mercy shown to others.  For what am I but clay, but dust, here today and broken tomorrow, forgotten the day after? The same clay is glorified as is shattered; our salvation is in Thee not in us, and we are only unworthy servants."\par
"Gottlieb is a little grim and hyperbolic at times," Daniel said, "but there is essential truth there. We will follow Christ, by His grace, no matter what."\par
"Let me be as  a window, that Christ may be seen clearly through me," Mark  continued.\par
"And that sums up why we put ourselves in the background, that Christ might increase and we decrease," Matthew nodded.\par
John had a lot to learn.  He was just a suburban kid who grew up without religion and had wandered his way to the Ranch, because it was something different.  A year ago Christ had given him faith, had justified him and made him right before God, and now he was working out what that meant.  It meant unlearning a lot, and his spiritual director had suggested he join this group and try it out.  He'd always liked camping, what with Boy Scouts and hunting and fishing, but this was it in spades.  This was a whole different way of living, deeper and wider than anything he had ever been in. \par
\par
 \par
}
 