{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9  "Communism is the result of historical and economic forces. It is the culmination of human historical progress."\par
"Well, we've been communist for hundreds of years.  We simply don't buy a secular communism.  We see communism in the book of Acts, in the early church. 34 AD or so."\par
"Where? I don't believe it. Not that I believe in ancient history, or the accidents of history, for that matter. Subjective, mythologized, biased, written by the cultural winners."\par
The elder pulled out a Bible and turned to Acts 4: 32-35.  "This is the NIV: '32 All the believers were one in heart and mind. No one claimed that any of their possessions was their own, but they shared everything they had. 33 With great power the apostles continued to testify to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And God\rquote s grace was so powerfully at work in them all 34 that there were no needy persons among them. For from time to time those who owned land or houses sold them, brought the money from the sales 35 and put it at the apostles\rquote  feet, and it was distributed to anyone who had need.'  So you see the idea of 'From each according to his ability, to each according to his need' is actually Christian.  The idea, though, of imposing it by force is not."\par
Marcel paused. "Marx was Jewish, of course, like those first Christians....Man rises upward with time, to the historical consummation of communism.  And what lies beyond, that now we cannot see. 'We see through a glass darkly,' as your Paul put it.  We see more clearly now than our ancestors ever did.  The march of progress.  What amazes me is that you seem to have arrived at the ideal future ahead of the rest of mankind. Or a version of it.  I'm here to find out why.'\par
"I think you are putting Plato's ladder on its side.  What is past is invalid, what is future and unseen is what has meaning.  Life now has no present meaning.'\par
"But there is meaning in the potential, in the hope for the future."\par
"So you are putting meaning in a future you cannot predict or see."\par
"We can predict it scientifically. The march of progress is inevitable."\par
"That depends greatly on how you define progress, correct?"\par
"Well, yes.  We define it scientifically."\par
"That sounds suspiciously circular."\par
"I suppose it would to you.  I am not sure I can explain it to you."\par
"Is that your inability to explain or mine to comprehend?"\par
Marcel paused.  He wanted to be careful not to offend. "Frankly, I am not sure." \par
"I see.  I fear that when one places the center of the gravity of life not in life itself but in the beyond - that is, in a beyond that is unknowable - it is like putting it in nothingness.  You lose all meaning to life: you lose any center to life, and thus any meaning to life."\par
"Isn't that what you Christians do? You believe in an unknowable God?"\par
"No, we believe in a God who made Himself known. He walked the earth. He spoke. And He still speaks.  We do not believe in a silent God. We are not deists, who affirm that God exists but has nothing to do with the world.  God is intimately involved in the world, in each of us."\par
"I'll pass over the problem of evil.  You'll just say that God works all things to good to those who love him, or some such.  You can see there is so much evil in the world that it is hard to believe God exists. Your kind of God, that is."\par
"On the contrary, there is so much good in the world that it is hard to believe He does NOT exist.  My kind of God, that is.  But He is not mine, more I am His."\par
Marcel was silent. Time to change the subject.  After all, he did not have all year to debate philosophy.  His was a practical mind and he thought in practical terms.  "But, you don't think a society should be allowed to impose justice on those opposed to justice?"\par
"Of course.  But we hold that justice comes not from the state but from God."\par
"Don't you hold with 'the divine right of kings', and all that: God is the one who puts governments in place, though?"\par
"Certainly.  That's in Romans 13.  But government is still answerable to God."\par
"And who is to say what God says?"\par
"God is. God speaks clearly and unmistakably."\par
Marcel was silent for a moment.  "And if I think he has not? That such a claim cannot be proved, in fact, that it can be refuted simply because it is made?"\par
"Then you are mistaken."\par
"Madness. Sorry, that was overboard.  I am attempting to speak with respect.  The last thing I want to do is shut down dialog.  So, I see.  But Lessing's problem remains, with the ugly ditch you cannot cross between the accidents of history and the necessary truths of reason. You have no solution to that, I am sure."\par
"God spoke truly in history.  Reason must be drawn from observation, not be detached from reality.  The 'ugly ditch' is ugly in truth, because it separates man from the One who spoke in history.  Without history, there is no gospel, so that ditch is indeed ugly.'\par
"You are saying the one outside history entered into history and became part of history?"\par
"Well, I suppose I can agree with that. I'll need to think about it but it seems to be nicely put."\par
"Thank you.  Then perception is reality?"\par
"Absolutely not.  We can perceive things incorrectly.  But there are things that are true regardless of our perception.  And we see true things."\par
"We see false things, too. We cannot trust our perceptions."\par
"We can trust the One who made them to correct us and reveal Himself."\par
"I cannot rationalize that."\par
"I know.  You don't believe in revealed truth.  Only in human reasoning, which goes nowhere.  There is no hope in no afterlife, or in the idea of a future society that is perfect whose nature you do not know.  We hope in an afterlife, and we know of a future society whose nature we do know, at least so far as it has been revealed to us."\par
"I could claim that communism has been revealed to me by the Great Logic Monster. Just like you claim that Christ rose from the dead.  I believe in pure reason, not in the accidents of life, the day to day so-called facts that are only a memory the next day."\par
"You could make that claim, but it would not be true.  It would not be historically verifiable.  And your version of communism insists that there is no God, so there is no one to reveal it.  So you would be intellectually dishonest, in claiming a revelation for something that denies revelation.  You are admitting there is no basis for your beliefs, for your reason, for your faith in reason, except itself.  It's like a soap bubble, floating off, self-contained.  And those never last long.  The reason inside your head is only connected to the outside world by these facts that you seem to disdain so much."\par
"Well, communism is scientifically demonstrable, as we go from ancient tribal societies to agrarian societies to industrialized societies, the individual becoming more and more coordinated and dependent on his fellow man - what do you think, then, is the proper foundation for communism, if not the dictatorship of the proletariat?"\par
"It will only work if the hearts of those practicing it have been transformed by the love and grace of the Lord Jesus Christ."\par
"I believe men are good. With respect,  allow me to say that we have no need of your god."\par
"I think you are wrong on all three counts, Marcel."\par
"Likewise, elder, \i with respect\i0 ,  I think you are wrong."\par
"Tell, me, Marcel, have you ever done anything that you know is wrong? That you feel bad about doing?"\par
"No. I have had false guilt because I have been brought up brainwashed in a certain moral environment, but not true guilt, because that implie a Judge.  The only judge will be history and I am humble enough to admit that I will be forgotten, so not judged.   Let's change the subject.  These discussions should be impersonal.   You people have fused the state and the church in your settlements, right?"\par
"Yes.  The church and the settlement structure are the same structure. The church IS the settlement.  But we do not say the settlement is the church.  The settlement is an expression of the local church, if not the single expression."\par
"Would someone who does not agree with your religion be allowed to practice their own faith and still live in your settlement and be part of it?"\line\par
"I see you have been reading \i Critique. \i0 We have read it as well, and we believe we have answered that question.  Centuries ago."\par
"If you don't mind, just answer the question."\par
"How can they join, when the purpose of joining is to specifically join in something they already disagree with? They would not really be joining, would they? Can you ask someone to join an organization when they say they don't believe in the organization? It' simply not logical.   Say you had an organization that believes in eating potatoes (we do - we eat a LOT of potato salad).  Along comes someone who does not believe in eating potatoes.  Why should he join?  It would be against his integrity. "\par
"And if someone is raised in your settlement, and when he is an adult, he does not believe?"\par
"Then he should not stay.  On account of his own integrity.  He should not be part of something he does not believe in.  We should not force him to remain.  He should not force himself to remain."\par
"So you ask him to leave. On account of his integrity. But if he decides to stay, saying that it is not against his integrity?"\par
"How can it not be against his integrity? If he felt it was not a violation of his integrity to stay, although he did not believe as you do.  He liked, for example, the community but not the faith."\par
"The community is the faith lived out.  He would be confused. And we do have many people here who are not really members but live here."\par
"What is the difference?"\par
"Well, when someone comes to the elders and says they want to be a member, and be held accountable, and be admitted to the Eucharist, that is the point.  If they have not been baptized then they are, and they are taught and discipled - there is a difference, one being head-knowledge, the other life-obedience, and they are admitted to the Eucharist.  There is accountability.  Of those outside Communion who want to live here, they must live in a way that we find acceptable.  That generally requires some quidance in each case. Some leeway is permitted, but there are some things we cannot permit, for the good of our general society."\par
"Do you have jails?"\par
"Oh, no.  If someone is a repeat offender, the typical sentence is banishment. Exile. They are not welcome here for a period of time, sometimes for life. There may be what is called community service, where someone has to do an arduous task for a certain length of time, and do it well, or do it until it IS done well by them."\par
"So how do you administer justice? Do you have courts?"\par
"No.  The elders work on this together.  In severe cases we will turn someone over to the secular authorities, but that would require the consensus of all the elders." \par
Lydia got up and left Marcel to argue with the elder.  This was getting awkward and she had lost interest in the discussion, which Marcel told her should be informative, as she would learn the value of his pure reason over against the shackled thought of an Epper elder.  But it did not seem like that was happening, and Marcel's underlying scorn and the elder's serenity were getting to her.   Scorn was not a basis for truth.  .  She was the one who had gotten him interested in seeing a communist society that worked.  He had become despondent at the failure of the Russian, Cuban and Chinese models and she had told him, one night in bed, of the Eppers and their settlements.  He was a fervent atheist, something she admired, as it helped her deny the feelings of guilt she struggled with for abandoning the quirky faith and lifestyle of the Eppers for a more, shall we say, cosmopolitan faith and lifestyle.  But for her the cosmopolitan mindset was proving empty: the idea of becoming one with an impersonal being seemed to be a step down, and so she had rejected the Eastern Mysticism as well as Plato and panentheism.  Her current safe-harbor was Marcel: he stood against a feeling of the meaninglessness of life with what he had acquired from Nietzsche: man must make his own meaning.  There is no other. You had to fight against superstition constantly, against compromised thought, against sinking down into the morass of what Marcel called un-thought.  Most people made decisions on the basis of feelings, not thinking, he said.  They were unthinking animals without an appreciation for cold, pure logic.    She wondered if that was real meaning.  It was like cutting out a badge from cardboard and saying it was an Olympic medal.  She was, she felt, a stranger to real meaning.  Somewhere she had lost it, long before she had left the Eppers.   This elder reminded her of her childhood, when God was in heaven and Mother was in the kitchen. \par
Here, though there was meaning, truth, reality: an Epper kitchen, complete with Mama and kids working and a \i jongedamme\i0  being worked to exhaustion and criticized for every error or inefficiency.  The prospect of undergoing \i jongedammeheit\i0   as a prelude to marriage was one of the reasons Lydia had escaped the Eppers. And here she was again, but now a visitor. A stranger in her own land.  She understood the Eppers.  She had outgrown them, she thought, but there were nagging thoughts.  It was easier to believe they were ignorant when you were away from them, even easier when Marcel was present and speaking at length about the supersitious peasant drunk on calling on gods who could not answer, because they were made up: man could not handle the truth and in a hard world it helped to have friends in high places.  Lydia looked at the crucifix on the wall.  A friend in high places, suspended between earth and heaven.  Where had she heard that? A sermon from childhood?\par
She sat on a stool at the kitchen counter and looked across it at these local specimens of Epper culture, as Marcel would say.  Maybe they were putting on an act, but it looked like Mama was smiling and being benevolent and the \i jongedamme\i0  was appreciating the advice she was getting. Lydia had always gotten the idea that being a \i jongedamme\i0  was worse than Marine Corps Basic and much longer: people talked that way and women looked back at it as the most difficult and formative time in their lives, a good preparation for being a wife and a mother, a rite of passage from girlhood to womanhood.  Even those who never married. They usually thanked their mentor and Christ, and not in that order, which had always struck Lydia as odd.  But since Lydia had never had the first and wasn't speaking to the second, if he existed, she had neither.  She wasn't really interested in marriage.  Domestic slavery and dependence on a man was degrading.  Marcel considered it a chattel institution.  There was a vague sense of loss and disappointment in all this she could never place, never put her finger on, but never quench, either.  There should be something more to life. Some joy, maybe. Marcel was all humorless logic.  Humor was a bourgeois luxury, an opiate like religion, that people used to escape existential despair.  Better, he thought, to face the despair with courage. \par
A girl was being scolded on poorly peeling a potato by the \i jongedamme\i0 .  Lydia smiled: this reminded her of Mama and her childhood. Safe, warm, comfortable. So many potatoes. On a hook over a drip-pan hung a freshly scalded chicken carcass, a few drops of blood now and then falling into the pan.  In a minute it would be off the hook and the feathers would slide out with absolutely no resistance and it would be plucked in two minutes or less. As a girl she had never been able to pluck a chicken in less than three minutes, to her shame.  Dinner tonight, what with the guests.  Marcel had wanted to insist on sleeping in the same room, but Lydia knew that would not go over, and he was sleeping in another trailer.  Let him focus on what he came for.  And Lydia would not want to be looked on by the women here as they would if they knew what she and Marcel were doing, unmarried and all. Large kitchen, big windows, deep window-seats.  It was, after all, a stone house - not much lumber here - and it had been built with an air gap between two courses of stone, for insulation, so that the house had actually been built twice, once on the inside and once on the outside.  The window seats doubled as greenhouses and were full of green plants.  The light that penetrated had a green glow as a result.  Even the roof was stone, although the walls and ceiling had been plastered and painted. There were two floors above this one, but you would never guess it by the amount of sunlight coming in through the windows.  By some trick they had hidden the wires. They had left the domed ceilings visible.  It looked more like a church or a museum or something more than a hard-working kitchen. "we offer our work to God in thanksgiving and praise" came back to Lydia from her childhood: a woman's kitchen as considered her sanctuary, her holy of holies, her captain's quarterdeck. Epper kitchens suggested church architecture when they could, and this one succeeded.  Lydia thought about the fact that beauty was incorporated into everything the Eppers did "to the praise and glory of God who made beauty for our enjoyment".  Marcel could speak about how beauty was commercialized and harnessed to the interests of the overclass, but this was something that transcended all that.  The walls sang to the glory of God. The food preparation would be liturgical, not with a book but reverent and holy.  And the food itself would be heavenly.  Eppers knew how to cook! And thw whole house was a church in that sense, a home life in which everything is offered up to God and family members are family in Christ, not just biologically. \par
Marcel came up and slapped her butt as she sat. "Not here," she whispered. He was surprised. He leaned over to kiss her and she warned him with a look that she meant it. "Mind where you are, Marcel," she said.\par
"Yes.  Well. We are going to take a break. I have, I think, won my argument."\line "Really?"\par
"Oh yes, yes. Of course. Don't I always?"\par
"Don't be silly. Not with me, anyway."\par
"I know. Never argue with a woman. If you lose, you lose. And if you win, you still lose. She will not like to remember that she lost. And-"\par
"So why are you arguing with a woman?"  She didn't like the fact that in this background, at this Epper settlement, he seemed \i grob\i0 , \i potlash\i0 , whereas at the coffeeshops and bars where they hung out he was funny, sophisticated, urbane, and so above grubby supersitious folk, the common lot of mankind, that he was appealing.  Somehow that was gone.  That dripping chicken was more real. More honest. More appealing.  It was down now, being plucked. The feathers, in fact, every part, would be scrupulously saved and used somehow.  The chicken had given its life for them and was a remembrance of Another's life given so they could live. It came back to Lydia with some force. \par
He smirked. "Good one.  The elder seems to think the discussion has ended and will not be fruitful if continued.  He suggests I try someone else if I wish to learn more about Eppers, but he is through.  So I think I must have prevailed. My unassailable logic prevailed."\par
"No," Lydia said,"If you don't mind me saying so, because I grew up with them, that is what they say when they don't want to waste time with a - with someone they think is a fool but are being polite."\par
"Oh, I prefer my version, little lady."\par
"I am sure you do," she responded.\par
"What is with that? Ever since we got here you seem to be a different person. You're not reverting to this, I hope?" He gestured disdainfully to the kitchen, to Mama, to the \i jongedamme\i0 , the children and even the chicken.  \par
"We would not consider it a regression," Mama said, and smiled.  \par
Marcel seemed to realized she had been listening to all this. "What would you call it?" he asked.  \par
"How about 'coming home'" Mama replied, "and returning to her roots. We are praying, child."\par
 Marcel asked her why they were outside.\par
"Don't I have any private thoughts?" she demanded.  There were people going by. The place was as crowded as Manhattan, but here they all smiled at each other, and the men tipped their hats at the ladies. Marcel thought it was like a frog pond: greet-god greet-god greet-god. Kribit krib-it krib-it. Greet-God. Same thing, unthinking habit, no awareness of the sharpness and reality of real thought. Baseless superstition. Emotional entrapment. Mush.\par
"Sure you have private thoughts. I mean-"\par
"No you don't. You don't understand."\par
"Let me tell you that I think these people don't know why they are communist. I think their failure that way is tragic. On a scale with the -" he broke off, seeing that she was not listening and moving off, out of sight.  This was unlike her typical fawning. Was this even the same woman? He stood there for a minute and shook his head.\par
"You don't understand.  You think God has to prove Himself to you.  It is you who has to answer to Him. He is the creator and judge, not you. There is pride and arrogance in you, Marcel, that I see.  Like a filthy cloth.  I wonder that I did not see it before now, but now that I am here..."\par
She sat down with her back against a house.  Ahead of her was the   Nicholls County prairie, broken by a tree line along a creek some miles away.  The town of Nicholls was there, little tiny buildings sticking partly above the horizon even further away. As far as she was concerned, she'd left Marcel back there open mouthed. Maybe he was still standing there.  It didn't really matter. She had to answer to God for her behavior.  How could she judge Marcel, who had not never heard, when she had heard, and known, and had gone ahead in  stubbornness  to do her own will. Arrogance. Pride. Upraised chin and self-exaltation. She had been so smart, so wise, so knowing.  Marcel had affirmed that was the right way to go. What a fool she had been! God, forgive me, she prayed. Now what? \par
She had spent years being a sophisticate. She had spent a fortune to impress, in time, treasure, truthfulness. She had compromised herself.  Lydia knew that was going to happen: when she went away to college, she was planning on never coming back to an Epper settlement ever again, except maybe for a funeral or something else major. It was her life, not her parents', not her settlement's.  And in a whisper, not God's.  But was this guilt or was this a sense that following the world and its lies was simply a waste of time?  Escape from truth was not possible.  Or was it? If she could escape from truth for the rest of her life, would it matter? Yes, it would.  She realized she was struggling with truth.  She was perilously close, she felt, to "giving in" to the Christian God.  Returning to her roots.  It would cost a lot, but what would she be throwing away and considering as garbage so that she might gain Christ?  What was it that she valued more than her soul? More than God? Where was all that smug atheism and sure communism guiding the hand of history? She was only a part of a whole, and she would never be whole unless she was integrated into what God had made her to be. She could not be fully human unless she was part of a fully human community. And this Epper community, correction, this ex-Epper settlement, beat the superficial and sneering artificiality she had been swimming in hands down.\par
"I hate this place," she said, and broke down. "I love this place. Which is it?"  But no answer came.  No voice spoke out of the quiet, no angel trumpeted "this is the way, walk ye in it." How could autonomous man authenticate an exterior voice?  That sounded like Marcel.  \par
"I am here to get to the bottom of things," Marcel said to himself.  He looked at the weird earth mound.  Steep-sided, like it had been left long ago by a bulldozer. It was taller than he was, and countless saplings had tried to live successfully as trees, only to die, over countless years.  It wasn't so much an earth mound as a block of wood, with roots and branches sticking out, the branches straining up with their dead leaves in places, the roots wandering everywhere without meaning, the dirt cradled between root and branch out of the ever searching wind.  A few solitary ants explored the weathered sticks.  On top of the mound were some new, young hopeful plants, still green.  Their lives would be short and they would join the multitude of the dead.  "Maybe an old Indian earth-sheltered house, long ago fallen in," he said to himself. "That's the most likely explanation. Not an ant hill per se."  He looked back at the hangers and the trailers, now a thousand feet or so north of him.  Another reason to be here, away from that ant-hill, was some alone-time.  The place was packed with people. He was getting away from everything, especially Lydia who was acting strangely. He liked to think he had total control over her.  Coming to this "Refuge CIty" should be a demonstration of that control, that silly superstition can be driven away by rigorous thinking. No more doubts. No more questioning.  He desired unwavering obedience from her, total submission, total control.  He was confident he could loose the leash a little and let her wander. He would snap her to when he wanted.  She was his toy, and when he was tired of her he would abandon her and find another woman.  His property.  No. More like rental. At the moment, short-term rental seemed more like it.  Where was she?  He was annoyed with her.\par
 He stepped forward.  On the top of the mound some young saplings were struggling to survive, and he saw other plants - grasses and weeds - there as well. He thought he would climb up there and look around.  There were more ants now running around on the outside of the mound.  He stopped to look at them.  He admired their pure communist society.  Each need met, each working seamlessly according to ability in harmony.  So often human attempts at communism had failed miserably. No one had ever really tried hard enough to root out the deadwood so a communist society could flourish.  Capitalists, weak people even socialists should be swept away. Religious people.  To really succeed in reaching communism, you probably needed to eliminate ninety percent of the population.  You needed to harden your resolve and accept that unemotionally as a scientific fact, like gravity or the lack of an immortal soul.  To start his climb, he grabbed an old root that looked like it could support him and pulled on it.  But it came loose. He looked at it - there were the small brown ants running along it.  These raised their tails and faced him.  He thought a minute. Ah, he could identify them.\par
"Hello, little acrobat ants," Marcel said.  This was amusing.  They were facing him off. He smirked.  He crushed one ant with his thumb, like communism would crush capitalism.  He looked down and there were more ants - many more - on the ground. There was a pungent odor.  He stepped back as he felt the first bite on his leg, then one on his hand.  He dropped the root and stepped back and brushed ants off his sleeve. There was a bite on his neck and more on his legs. Each one wasn't much, but they were accumulating as he stepped back and away, brushing them off and swatting himself with his hands.  Now he was some ten feet away from the mound and the biting was tapering off.  Not stopping, but there were fewer out here. But they were moving around under his clothes.\par
They had not built the mounds but they had them now.  No doubt all the mounds were infested with biting ants.  His clothes were still full of them.  When they bit, he swatted, but there were many more. They seemed particularly interested in biting his private parts, where he could not swat.  Marcel was thoroughly miserable. \par
An Epper was walking out to meet Marcel carrying a sheet. "I saw you messing with a mound," he called. "You need to strip.  Leave your clothes on the ground. Shoes. Underwear. Everything.  They will lose interest in the clothes when you are out of them, and they don't like bare skin. I will wrap you in the sheet.  You can come back later for your clothes. No one will touch them."\par
Marcel was in no mood to argue, but this was humiliating.  Shirt. T-shirt.  Drop trou. Stop and remove shoes and socks. Trousers. Undershorts off.  The man was still at least a hundred feet away.  Probably to avoid the ants.  Marcel was hoping no one was looking, even though he was in clear sight of the entire south side of the Refuge City and people were walking around.  They were not looking his direction, anyway.  The ground was hot in the sun, mainly rock with a few patches of dirt holding scraggly low weeds here and there.  \par
"Let's go to the medical center and get those bites cleaned.  Some of the ants carry bacteria that you don't want to mess with.  And you will have to check back in there in a couple of days in case they turn septic.  Those ants are nasty."\par
Sheet-wrapped, he could only nod.  "Someone from Mo-DNR came out and told us we are not to touch those mounds until they can be investigated by an archaeologist - they might be significant.  That was several years ago.  But the the ants keep a better watch. There's no need to take any down," he was told.\par
"You're new, I suppose. What's your name, anyway? I haven't seen you here before." \par
"Dr. Brown. Dr. Marcel Brown."\par
"Medical doctor?"\par
"No. I teach political science at a college.  I came to study this place.  My fault with the mounds was too much curiosity, I suppose."\par
"Yeah. Curiosity killed the cat."\par
"And satisfaction brought it back." How trivial.  What an ignorant savage.  His feet, used to shoes, were having trouble on the gravel.  Some of the pieces were big and jagged.  Everyone here wore thick boots for this reason, he supposed.   He'd investigated their Snake Woods, which he had originally dismissed as legend, only to find a long sad list of medically verified deaths from snake bite associated with it.  He had been down there and looked at it, but had not gone past the DNR warning signs.  The place was off limits.\par
"And you are -?"\par
"Just a guy who happened to walk by.  Corey Smith, by name.  I moved down here after I graduated from high school.  I am hoping for a Pentecostal outpouring of the Holy Spirit before the moon turns to blood and the stars fall from the sky. I hope everyone is ready to face the Lord."\par
"Mmm-mmm.  I see. And what would that Pentecostal outpouring of the Holy Spirit look like to you? Just the moon turning to blood and the stars falling from the sky?"\par
"Healing. Deliverance. Tongues.  Being filled with the Spirit. You know. Prophecy. People getting saved.  People getting right with God.  Are you right with God?  Do you need some shoes? You feet are bleeding. Earthquakes.  Right before the Lord returns, the moon will turn to blood.  I think I said that.  Rock turning to blood, if you take it literally.  Who can abide the day of His coming? I hope you are ready.  I know I am."\par
Marcel had already run into these end-time fanatics.  He was currently much more interested in  how far it was to the hangers, still, and then how far from the hangers to the medical center.  That calculation brought on a certain dismal feeling.  And his toes in particular were suffering, despite walking slowly and painfully on the gravel to the south of the hangers. Between them and the hem of the sheet - now that toga party's lesson had come in handy - little red dots decorated his legs, each swelling slightly. \par
"Hey," Corey said, "I could piggyback you there."\par
Marcel thought about it.  He had already lost all dignity, he thought.  By the time he got to the medical center his feet would be torn up.  He accepted the ride.  To his surprise the man was jogging while carrying him.  They passed the row of hangers and now the trailers were on their left.  How humiliating. He was, after all, a doctor and had dignity. He should be treated with dignity due to his position.  But his feet were already in pain on the bottom and this was much faster. \par
"Put me down," Marcel insisted now, what with more people around.  Adults do not carry other adults piggy-back.  Pride was winning.  \par
"Look at your feet. Just look at them," a woman called from inside a trailer. "What's your shoe size, hon?"\par
"Ten," Marcel replied. \par
A moment later she appeared, a rather plump woman in the Russian manner, complete with a headscarf, a huge apron and a toddler clinging to her long skirt. She had two pairs of shoes in her hands and a pair of socks.  The socks were thick cotton or wool, white, well made but obviously hand made. \par
"Here," she said,"try them on." She had a big smile on her round foolish face.   Marcel did.  \par
He thanked the prol  woman.  Probably she was religious, but could be relieved of her brainwashing after some time in a reeducation camp.  Forced labor was a necessary stage in the creation of a communist society.   Marcel was amazed at how his feet felt better as he put the socks on, then the boots. The boots fit like they had been made for him. They, too, were high-quality but obviously hand-made. \par
The medical care was free, Marcel learned.  Totally, and also of high quality.  There was the usual propaganda on all the walls of the waiting room, and the exam room.  He was amused by the comic frog with the sign.  Terrible pun there.  He had thought these people had driven out all humor with their religion, but there it was.  \par
He was trying to work out what "peace" was supposed to be on the artwork when there was a knock at the door and Dr. H. entered.  He'd already met the doctor when he arrived, as everyone was checked for diseases before being let loose in the closely-packed area.  \par
"Ant bites," Dr. H. muttered, "Vell, I can make nothing of it!"\par
"Really?"\par
"Oh, no.  These are bites from our friends in the mounds.  You are far from the first to experience their affection. Are you allergic to penicillin?"\par
No....Why?"\par
"Because about one out of three times someone gets bit like this, they develop an infection within twenty four hours.  I would rather catch it now, proactively, than deal with suppuration and high fever."\par
"That makes sense.  Are they that bad?"\par
"Well, the snakes are worse.  We stay away from the mounds.  You'll know by morning if you have an infection.  If you feel at all ill tonight, come back and wake me up.  The pharmacy is in the adjoining house."\par
Marcel was thinking about picking up the prescription while wearing only a sheet.  There was a knock at the door.  It was the nurse, bringing his own clothes.\par
"A Corey Smith got them for you.  I don't remember him," she said.  He was relieved.  They allowed him to dress in privacy.  Marcel made sure everything in his wallet was still there, and all his keys. You can't be too careful, he told himself.  He would have to return the boots, and the sheet. \par
The pharmacist on duty was reading a book when he came in.   It could have been a twin to the medical center waiting room, only instead of a transparent window there was a counter the length of the wall.  He gave her the prescription.\par
"Pretty quiet around here," he said.  Her complexion was worth examining, and her eyes were not bad.  Most of her was hidden under a high neckline and of course the white coat of a pharmacist.  Her hair was pulled back.  Late twenties, he figured.  \par
"Yep. Most of these Eppers use traditional medicines and have no use for prescriptions. Some of the quote-normal-endquote people refuse to see a doctor, until it's really late, and then the elders sit on them.  THEN they get their meds.  But we have our hypochondriacs, too, and some people in poor health.  Not that many. What can I do you for?"\par
Marcel thought, plenty.  Lydia wasn't around, and what she didn't know was not her business.  But something told him this S. Hodges was not interested in him.  He pushed the prescription across and she looked at it silently.\par
"Give me five minutes, ok?"\par
He nodded.  She flew into action, her hands moving faster than he could follow.  He had seen this with Epper women before.  In a minute he saw the full bottle on the counter, complete with label.  She then called Dr. H. and verified the prescription.\par
"We always do that," she said,"If only one pharmacist is on duty, we call and make sure we read the prescription correctly.  He told you penicillin, right?"\par
"Right."\par
"Ok. You see the directions."\par
"Thanks." \par
\par
Lydia was suddenly aware that she was not alone.  One of the Epper women, a young one, was also sitting there, a house away, staring to the east, just like she had been.  Lydia suddenly felt that she was in need of company.\par
"Hi there," she said, sitting down.\par
"Oh, hi," a nervous smile was returned.\par
"I'm Lydia.  Is this where we go to get away from men?"\par
"Hardly. I'm here to get away from my kids. And my so-called \i jongedamme\i0 ."\par
"Oh, really?"\par
"Yes.  I was raised American.  You know, the whole middle-class, suburban thing.  My family is Presbyterian, and I heard Jake Profim speak, and I knew I had to come out here. I just knew it. My heart was here ever since that night, even though he only talked about a Refuge City in general terms, but there was a lot of talk, and I came.  Now I'm here.  I have two kids - I've never been married - and I found myself overwhelmed.  So I asked for help and they gave me a \i jongedamme \i0 to show me the ropes of being a good Epper woman. Rather, she completed her training and now she's - I feel like I am the one now being put through the wringer.  But there is no hope of any of these Epper men being interested in me if I don't go through it.  It's kind of a challenge you, you know - they all tell how hard they had it, and then they look at me because I never did it.  And then when they come over and see what a mess my house is - well, I had to do something.  It is just so hard, so very hard.  And I am the mother and she is not, and there is sort of a role reversal. Very humiliating.  I had to get away for a minute."\par
"My mother used to put her apron over her head sometimes when it got hard.  It's not stoicism. It's endurance.  That's what they say, anyway. Perseverance."\par
They continued talking.  Her name was Sarah, and Lydia found herself encouraging Sarah in continuing to learn the Epper ways.  It would be worth it.  Was she speaking to herself in this? \par
"Mommy?"  a young woman had appeared and had two children.  This was from the three year old.  The other one was in the woman's arms.  She looked down at Sarah. "Ready, ma'am?"\par
"Ok, boss," Sarah said, and with a sigh she got up.\par
"I am your servant, ma'am.  Please do not call me your boss. I am here to help you not control you. I am sorry if I have offended you in any way.  But we need to get dinner on."  She handed the smaller child to Sarah.\par
"All right," Sarah said, and to Lydia, "It was nice meeting you."  \par
"Likewise," Lydia responded. Now, why had she defended doing something that she herself had not been willing to do? She could practically hear Marcel trying to talk Sarah into escaping her chattel condition.  She rounded the corner and stopped.\par
Marcel was clumping along, scratching himself, headed north, wearing nothing but a sheet and heavy boots,  looking at the ground and looking miserable.\par
Weird.  But he had not seen her. She wanted to keep it that way.\par
She headed south along the east side of the houses.  She wanted to find some part of this place where he was not.  She needed to do some serious thinking, and his idea of her doing serious thinking was listening to him speak.\par
\par
With the first dosage inside, he took the boots and the sheet and headed south, to the far side of the hanger.  He planned to return them.\par
The girl at the desk at the Mathom House looked at the sheet and frowned. "We don't have any sheets like that," she said,"but we will take it.  It is well-made.  We'll wash it, of course. All our sheets are white.  This one is a bright yellow. You said it's from here?"\par
"Corey Smith brought it out to me."\par
"Who?"  I never heard of a Corey Smith, and just about everyone comes by here at some time or another.  And I have a good memory for names."\par
He tried to describe Corey Smith, but found he couldn't.  Was he tall? Short? Skinny? Fat? Glasses? Moustache? Hair?  Marcel prided himself on his memory, but there was none about these things.  Finally she got out a thick notebook.  In it was a list of everyone living in the Refuge City, with one page per last name.  Each entry had the name, the number of people in the family, and the trailer number.  He was not there under  Smith or any of nine variations now present  Nor was he listed in another notebook.  This second one was everyone who had gotten something from the Mathom House - they were now keeping records - in the last six months.  And then there was another notebook, of registered guests and where they were staying.  If Corey had gotten a sheet from there, he should have showed up twice.  No Corey Smith. Did he have the name right?   Marcel prided himself on his excellent memory. This was all he could take. It was practically an insult or a cover-up.  He walked off, leaving the sheet. \par
It was even worse with the boots.  He remembered distinctly where the trailer had been, the one the fat Russian woman had come out of, but it was not there. Could not have been, because now there were two other trailers at a ninety-degree angle where it had been earlier. And they had plants and flowerbeds in the odd little triangle between them - right where the trailer had been earlier today.\par
Someone was playing a weird trick on him, Marcel thought.  He would have to watch these people.  He recalled his conversation earlier with the elder.  How could he know what had really happened?  He had to be rational, he decided.  He could not trust his own memory. Then how could he trust his own thinking?  Doubt crept in.  Was he going insane? There must be a rational explanation for the boots he was now holding.  Could he trust his reasoning to come to any conclusion? Could he even trust his reasoning to determine whether his reasoning was valid or invalid?  He could explain it as an hallucination - maybe something to do with a reaction to the ant bites or the medicine.  But then there were the boots? What had actually happened?  This was an epistemological problem that was - was what?\par
There was no way to explain it.  He had the boots.  There was no explanation.  It had happened, he remembered, but if it had happened, where was Corey? Where was that trailer?  No explanation. No rationalization.  He could not have been hallucinating, as here were the boots.  He walked out and from a distance he saw the root he had pulled out of the mound - that had happened - and saw the place where he had met Corey.  Real places, real events.   History, he had to admit, could not be ignored.  He decided to change his mind because there were some implications he did not want to consider. There was the future communist society, he told himself, and thought of the glorious future of peace and joy. Liberty, fraternity, equality.  All men would be equal. Men and women, that is.  With that, he wondered where that silly girl had gone off to.  He needed to keep a sharper eye out to be sure he knew where she was.  There was also no Lydia.  Just the greet-God greet-God greet-God happy crowds, drunk in the opiate of their religion.\par
He found himself walking back to the medical center.  He looked for anything different, but everything was the same.  But no Lydia.  How could he find her in this place?\par
The receptionist had received his clothes from someone who called himself Corey Smith. She had  remembered what he had looked like.\par
"Then he DOES exist!" Marcel exclaimed triumphally.\par
"Well, I suppose he does," the receptionist responded calmly. \par
Marcel realized the absurdity of his comment, thanked her, and left. She shrugged her shoulders and went back to what she was doing. \par
There were thousands of people, and it seemed to him most of them had nothing better to do that to mill around and say "Greet God!" to each other.  He had no desire to plunge into the mostly unwashed mass of people caught up in their unthinking superstition and multiple-dimensioned ignorances.  It also piqued him that they seemed so happy. Religion truly was the opiate of the masses.  He wished he could get a fix, but it was not to be.  He was too smart to be that ignorant.\par
He had no place to go until dinner, at their north dining hall.  He walked away from the crowds, past the stable and the barn and the fenced-off area with the ruins of the old farmhouse and barn. That was history: gutted and ruined and now uninhabited.    They should take a lesson.  Someday earth would be a paradise, with no hunger, no pain, no superstition.\par
Clearly this was a road that went north.  Where did it go?  Out of sight, and he could see for miles here.  Maybe that Corey Smith character was from up north. Two horsemen  were coming south at a walk.  He waited for them.  They looked straight out of a Western, including  blankets rolled behind their saddles, gloves, cowboy boots and hats, even neckerchiefs. \par
One was an enormous man on an even bigger horse, the other slightly smaller. They reigned up. "Can we help you?" the big man asked. "You look like you need something."\par
"Just wondering where the road goes.  And I am looking for my girlfriend."\par
"Ah.  Up north is another settlement, a closed one.  We pass through, and we trade, but we don't socialize with them much.  No one's been on the road today.  You'd best go back south."\par
"Wa-ya, tlv-da-tsi." the other man said.  Marcel stared at him.\par
"He means that there are coyotes, but also cougars. It's not safe away from people."\par
Suddenly the wide, clean prairie seemed a whole lot more unfriendly.  \par
"How far away is the cougar?"\par
"They move around.  We see evidence every once in a while.  They are out there.  If you don't know what you're doing...No one here has ever been attacked, and we would like to keep it that way. We're with the patrol."\par
"I'll go back," Marcel said, and turned around.  They walked their horses at his pace.\par
"We're going to the stable.  South of there you should be safe, north of the hangers anyway. And outside the fence for the old farmstead.  The worst thing south of the hangers are the ants, until you come to Snake Woods.  Best you have a guide if you are prone to wander."\par
"I'll keep it in mind."\par
Marcel wondered what would have happened if he had tried to go in some other direction, what with the two horsemen, one on each side.  There was a slight feeling as if he was under arrest or something.\par
"Whatcha got there, Dutch?" called another cowboy who had been polishing a bridle under the canopy of the stable. \par
"Don't rightly know.  Just a visitor. One of ours." Marcel found this highly insulting.  Marcel had learned the big man was Luke, who did most of the talking. But he was scary-big.\par
"My name is Marcel.  And I am a visitor, thank you.  I am looking for my girl-friend Lydia, so I will be on my way."  And he left them.  This time he went on the west side of the old farm-house, partly to see what else was in there.  He had been told to never go near the fence.  He figured it was probably more ants, which he had had enough of.  This was a long way from Snake Woods.  What else could there be out here?\par
Nonetheless he kept a good distance between himself and that fence.  There was a barn and a farmhouse and what must have been chicken coops at one point, all just grey weathered wood.  Strange that it should be fenced off.  He would have to ask someone, but he checked himself.  He was not interested in history, after all, and that predated this place.  He was interested in how this society functioned.\par
He came to the North Dining Hall, which was still under construction, or rather reconstruction.  There was a sheet-metal building that had stone walls and pillars rising around it.  In many places were wooden jigs, and here crews of stone masons were measuring, final cutting and setting stones in place.  The walls were only waist high and he could see a plan of collonades that would surround the building.  The stone was limestone.  Roped paths showed how people should get into the dining hall, which was in use even during construction.  Marcel poked his head in.  It was dim and silent in there: the dinner crews had not arrived yet.  He thought he might ask some questions of them.\par
But perhaps there was someone available among them stone masons.  He walked out and looked at them.  They were all busy.  He stared for a minute, and one of them said something to his co-workers and came over to Marcel.\par
"Can I help you? You look lost or something.  The dinner crew will be here soon, if you are waiting on them."\par
"No.  I am here to study your society.  I find it intriguing that you have implemented a communist society without any Marxist theory whatsoever.  How do you do that, if you don't mind me asking."\par
"Marxist? As in Karl Marx?"\par
"Why, yes."\par
"We have nothing to do with Karl Marx. Consider all the pain he has caused mankind."\par
"Pain?"\par
"Why, yes.  Millions killed in China and Russia. You know."\par
Marcel did know.  He was bitterly aware of the failures of communism.  But it was inevitably true.  A million things rose up in him to say, but he said nothing.\par
"If you will excuse me, I need to get back to work," the man said, and did.  \par
Marcel wandered away.  There was a long low building to the west that he knew nothing about.  It was surrounded by a massive fence - not high, but very strong. Perhaps this was the prison? But the fence was easily climbable.  There was a gate and a road on the west side and it appeared that there were paddocks for the prisoners of several acres each.  Here there were mounds, but these were completely brown and had no growth on them.  Marcel decided to climb over the fence and look at them.\par
He walked about ten feet when he realized these were not mounds at all, but cattle resting. And huge cattle, with enormous wicked-looking long horns.  They lay there calmly chewing their cud.  \par
Then the largest of the mounds, maybe five hundred feet away on his left,  got to his feet - clearly the alpha male - and slowly started walking towards Marcel.  Marcel stopped. It was clearly a bull and it was in no hurry. There was no doubt it could run quickly.  The bull's slow walk was faster than Marcel could run.  Marcel took a small step backwards, then another. Marcel could not get to the fence before the bull could get to him.  And there was no doubt about what those horns could do.  \par
From his right a rider galloped toward him from near the building. Marcel had not even seen him at first.  There was a great  deal of snorting as the cows stood and looked at Marcel.  They backed away from him and consolidated into a mass of cattle, all facing him.  Except for the bull, still approaching.  And the rider came on, and the bull approached.  Marcel stood, frozen with terror.  Did cattle even come this big?  The bull's head bobbed up and down.  It was very clear Marcel was not welcome.\par
The rider stopped between the bull and Marcel and dismounted there, much closer to the bull than Marcel.    He made clicking noises towards the bull and walked slowly towards him. This had a calming effect on the cattle.  Marcel watched as he walked right up to the bull and took his horn right where it came out of his skull, and grabbed it and gently pulled it down.  Amazingly enough, the bull lowered his head, but not to charge but to lie down.  The bull lay down, and the cows followed suit.  After a minute the rider let go of the horn and watched for another minute, and then turned to Marcel and slowly walked to face him in easy speaking distance.  Behind him all the cattle were sort of squatting still, like trained dogs or something.\par
"I am sorry to tell you this is not a safe place for you.  I will walk you to the fence. You will climb it slowly and not come back in here. And please wait.  I will want to talk to you for a minute afterwards, when you are on the other side of the fence.  Understood?  "\par
Marcel understood.  A strong hand was placed on his shoulder and he was walked slowly to the fence.  He climbed it and stood.  \par
Then the rider made another clicking sound, and instantly all the cattle rose and ran off to the building, leaving the horse standing behind the rider.\par
This was a man of about thirty years of age, but weather-beaten.  He looked at Marcel for a minute with a long, slow, sad look.  Finally he spoke, "these are Epper cattle. Not really domesticated, best to stay away from.  Some people say they are aurochs - we bred them for size, and for meat, not for dairy - and they only trust their cattlemen.  I told them to go eat, which they are doing.  That bull could have tossed you over the fence without exerting himself.  They are very territorial and aggressive.  We're thinking of allowing them to range here.  We simply don't advertise the fact that we have aurochs, which disappeared from the wild hundreds of years ago.  Epper self-effacement. Kindly don't mention it outside of here."\par
With that, the man turned and made a clicking noise.  His horse immediately trotted over and he mounted.  His eyes flashed for a second, as if he was about to say something sharp to Marcel, but instead he kneed his horse and off they went, back to the building.  Marcel suddenly realized he was riding bareback. He had nothing to defend himself against the huge animals. \par
"Thank you," Marcel managed to say quietly, although by then the rider was a long way off.\par
Marcel turned left and followed the fence towards what looked like windmills. Kansas farm windmills more than Dutch windmills, though.  There must have been fifty or sixty of them ahead.  This area had fewer people in it.\par
"Greet God," said a smiling teenager, whose enormous wicker backpack was stuffed with live chickens.  Out of his personal integrity Marcel did not return that, but muttered "Good Afternoon," instead.  At that the chickens seemed perturbed and set off a clucking that continued some distance.  Marcel watched him until he turned south into the residential area.  Somewhere, obviously, they were raising chickens.  And making wicker baskets.\par
Marcel inspected the neat rows of windmills, spaced about twenty feet apart and about the same height.  There was a small stone building, stone of course, Marcel said to himself, wincing at the pun that had arisen inadvertently.   A gravel path led up to it and over the door it said, "Well House" in neat incised letters.  A crew of six men had a windmill down and were working on it on tables under the collonade around the well house,  and they looked up as he approached.\par
"Greet God," they said. "Can we help you?"  By which, Marcel realized, they were actually saying that he was an intruder and not wanted.\par
"Good afternoon. I am looking for my girl-friend Lydia.  Have you seen her?"\par
"No one has been by here for several hours. Sorry."\par
"Well, thank you."  And they got back to work.  Marcel turned around and left the well-field, feeling like he was in some strange country and not at all a part of it.  And where was Lydia?\par
\par
Lydia wandered south, to the hangers.  The first was obviously industrial, and the second was a "Mathom House." Oh! Hobbits! A reference to the Shire! There are Tolkien fans here!" She loved Lord of the Rings. A mathom was something you had that you did not want to give away because it was too expensive to waste, but you had no use for.  Hobbits gave each other mathoms as gifts. How funny! But what was in here? The hanger was open on this side, its massive door wide open.  There were shelves with narrow aisles that led off invitingly into the depths of the hanger.  There was a mezzanine that also had shelves, and even one above that, all full of shelves.  What did they consider mathoms?\par
Floor to ceiling were shelves, filled with an amazing number of things.  Here were rolls of leather, mixed with white linens.  A collection of beautiful lace that she spent a few minutes looking at, then, further in, there were some women's sturdy leather shoes in a variety of sizes and colors: red, black, brown, green, blue.  It looked like someone was trying to organize it but was frequently thwarted.  Canned peaches.  A large steel box marked "rice". Another one marked "washing machine parts".  Some white bedsheets, and on the other side and higher up, a pile of pillow covers.  A plaid couch held a mounted moosehead.  Wheels, axheads, cartons of typing paper.  On and on it went.  She followed the narrow aisle, which was not at all straight, but rather had sudden turns and dead-ends, three-way and four-way forks, as well as aisles that ended in stairs up to the first mezzanine.  Some of the stairs were straight, and she found one staircase that was spiral.  This one went to the third mezzanine, as she discovered when she found that there was no exit provided at the first or second mezzanines.  Maybe the spiral was unsafe if you entered it at those levels, or something. Now she was close to the roof, and she found this was a very small mezzanine.  But instead of all the noise she was used to, or it funneling its way up here - the workshop next door was a busy place - it was very still and quiet here.  There was something solemn and dignified about it.  Hallowed, if you will, she thought.  \par
There was a small building built there.  It was built almost against the back wall of the hanger.  There was nothing else here, although there was a good deal of space, something Eppers never wasted.  Someone was sitting in front of the doors - they were double doors - with a staff.  She slowly walked up to him.  There was something very Middle-Earthish about him, and he reminded her of the story of the door-ward before the Ways of the Dead, sitting there, waiting.  It seemed he had waited for her.  No one else was about.\par
"Are you the door-ward?" she asked, feeling like she was playing a part.\par
"I am," he replied.  He was indeed elderly, but his eyes were bright.  He was completely bald and he held onto his staff with both hands.\par
"What is this place?" she asked.  \par
"This is the Shuddering Chapel of the Presence," he replied, as if that explained it. \par
She waited, but that was all he said.  She had a sudden longing to go in.\par
"May I go in?"\par
"Only those who are called may go in.  You would not have found this place unless you had been called to come."\par
"Why is it called the Shuddering Chapel of the Presence?"\par
"If you go in, you will find the answer to that."\par
This was weird.  She was suddenly afraid.\par
"It would be better if you went in and found nothing, than if you did not go in and never knew, but there is more than nothing there, so the something there is worth going in to see."\par
"I am not sure I followed that."\par
"Then go in.  I am no danger to you.  And there is no lock on the door - you cannot be trapped in there, at least not by any power I have."      Those thoughts had flickered across the back of her mind.  She hadn't even formed them.  Probably logical, though.\par
He was no threat.  \par
There were no threats.  There was only the waiting set of double doors.  They were intricatedly carved with Hebrew letters, which she could not make out, and painted gold. She pushed through them.  It was indeed a chapel, with only a few rows of pews on either side. Ahead was a screen of wood, with holes in various places.  The source of light in the chapel was behind the screen, and it was a warm, golden light.  The doors shut behind her.  She tried them: they were not locked.  There was no threat of entrapment here.  \par
She was not alone.  There was a Presence in the room that she knew was located behind that screen, where the light was.  A Presence of great dignity, and she was the intruder here. She would wait for the Presence to speak. She would not interrupt It.  Him. Them.  There was more than One.  Or was it One?\par
  \par
"It's not always there, dear," Mrs. Meerschaum explained.  She sipped her tea and looked at Lydia's."\par
"I've talked to several people who have gone up the spiral staircase and seen what I saw, and talked to the old man, and entered the Chapel.  We've all had the same experience."\par
"Yes. I know.  I have been there myself.  Several times, in fact."\par
"I would like to go up the stairs again, and hear that Voice again."\par
"So would I, dear.  You will find the stairs, though, and there are many ways you can hear that Voice.  He speaks through Scripture, you know."\par
"But how can a set of stairs be there one time, and not the next?"\par
"Well, sometimes I am here, and sometimes I am somewhere else.  Does that make me less real?"\par
"Well, no."\par
"Or sometimes on a clear day you can see a mountain far away, and on other days you cannot. But the mountain is still there, correct?"\par
"Yes, I suppose so."\par
"But that hanger is not that old.  And neither are the mezzanines. How did this get there?"\par
"No one knows.  I think people were finding the stairs for a long time before people in general spoke of them.  In fact, it is not encouraged as a topic of discussion.  Few know of them."\par
It did not seem appropriate to pursue the subject much more.  Nor did Lydia plan on bringing it up with anyone else, because that would trivialize it.  She had seen the light, but more than that, she had heard.  There was a reason it was called the Shuddering Chapel. In there she had been more awake and alive than she normally was, and her thoughts were clearer. \par
Or rather her one, distinct, focused thought.  She needed to do one thing, forgetting what lay behind and pressing forward to what lay ahead.  She needed to press on for the prize greater than the entire weight of the world and its glory. It was over between her and Marcel, as if a giant knife blade had cut her off from her past.  Its failures and glories were garbage.  \par
Mrs. Meerschaum nodded.  Lydia wanted some time for prayer, and she wanted to memorize the Book of Philippians.  Mrs. Meerschaum understood it when she went to the guest bedroom and shut the door.\par
\par
Dr. H. knew where Marcel had been that afternoon by the time the North Dining Hall was open for the meal.  Some of his ant-bites had begun supperating.  He'd been kicked by a horse, bitten by a dog and a spider, scratched by a cat, stung by bees, wasps, and hornets, and had fallen into a utility trench under construction, giving his left wrist a slight sprain. Nothing major. He had not been bitten by a snake or killed by cattle.  Facts were facts, he told himself. The place was not out to get him  These events were because he did not know his way around and he had been in the wrong place at the wrong time. Simple enough. Nonetheless he could not scratch his right arrm with his left hand, because of the sling and the way Dr. H. had bound it, and it was this small thing that irritated him the most.  He was not supposed to scratch it, Dr. H. had said, but let it heal.  It was under a gauze pad with antibiotic ointment anyway.  But he wished he could scratch it.  And Lydia was where?  He knew no one, and he was above having much to do with these superstitious, ignorant yokels.   They were having a good time, but he sat there, glowering at them iin their insipid blitheness. \par
His research had been as fruitful as his search for Lydia. Nothing.  The elder had redefined communism, in his opinion, as being an outworking of love flowing from a divinely-reformed heart. This Marcel rejected from the get-go, on the basis of rigorous scientific principles.  There was some reason they were not telling him that this place worked.  Marcel had been unable to determine it.  He was no fool.  They had tried to trick him with this Corey Smith, who probably was laughing somewhere with Lydia and the Russian boot lady right now.  Other people could be taken in with these tricks but he knew better.  He was planning on taking Lydia and escaping as soon as he could. If she did not turn up he would leave without her. That would fix her.   Girls were plentiful and she would soon be replaced.  He could easily leave her here in this nest of fanatics.\par
\par
"I hear you are leaving," the elder said.\par
"I am."\par
"Before you go there is one more thing."\par
"What would that be?  And I would like to be gone soon."\par
"You need to give God the glory before it is too late, before your life is full of darkness and your feet stumble in twighlight."\par
"How profound.  So you are motivated by fear, after all.  I reject this God of yours.  You seek to trap me here with fear.  I knew it.  You are in terror of some coming judgement. That keeps you in mental chains."\par
"No, I am here to warn you. "\par
"Well, thank you for your warning.  Maybe I will warn you the sky is falling. Zeus is about to hit you with a thunderbolt because you don't believe in him."  Marcel started his car and glared out the window.\par
"I have not warned you yet.  I warn you that everything you have done will come to light and be exposed.  You cannot hide anything. God be with you and be merciful to you."\par
"Nice. Fat chance.  Nice visit. Too bad you stole my girlfriend."  And he rolled up the window and drove away.\par
The elder looked after him sadly.  "While he is still alive there is still hope. We can pray," he said to himself.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\line\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\i\par
\i0\par
}
 