{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f1\fnil Tahoma;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green77\blue187;\red255\green0\blue0;\red155\green0\blue211;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\li720\f0\fs22 Table of Contents\par
Introduction\par
\par
\b Part One\b0\par
\par

\pard\tab 1. The Diamond\i   \cf1  \cf2\i0\par
\par
\cf0\tab 2. Beginnings\cf2\par
\cf3\par

\pard\li720\cf0 3. That Golden Age \cf1\i  \cf2\i0\par
\cf3\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\cf2  \par
\cf0 4. Order from Chaos\cf2\par
\cf0\i\par
\i0 5. Marcel Brown\cf2\par
\cf0\par

\pard  \par
 \par
\ul\b PART ONE\ulnone\b0          \ul\b\par
\par
Chapter 1   The Diamond\ulnone\b0   \par

\pard\li720  \par

\pard\cf3 See 1.1 The Diamond\cf0\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 2   Beginnings\ulnone\b0    \cf3 See 1.2 Beginnings\cf0\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter  3   That Golden Age \cf2\ulnone\b0\par
\cf0  \par
In 1976 the arrivals had become a torrent.  Many exiled Eppers - and the Committee on Doctrinal Purity was very busy purifying the Eppers of every possible heresy, especially the popular charismatic movement - arrived, but others from every background, purpose and interest, not all of which purposes were good, came. People looked for a home after being exiled from their own settlements, or looked for a Holy Ghost revival, a good time, or a refuge city, whatever that meant. Six thousand  (it could have been anywhere between five to ten thousand and it fluctuated) people arrived.  Everyone was on the Midbar in a close-set tent city with parking on the east side, but Eppers formed settlements and departed, some settling elsewhere on the Ranch. The Midbar was the plantless hard-packed plain, a rectangle that had been the site of the Prisoner of War Camp during World War Two. \par

\pard\li720\par

\pard The Ranch entered into wild, full charismatic mode, a Woodstock West, with little order. Jake was in charge, although almost never there, and Paul was looked to, if anyone was, as the leader.  But Paul did not lead. People at the Nicholls Church remembered Paul's demonstrated lack of giftedness to lead; why Jake chose him to lead was a mystery.  Paul was in full 'reliance on the Holy Spirit' in human passivity mode. \par
\par
Paul wanted quiet but instead unexpectedly hosted thousands. Paul was comfortable one on one but not much more than for a group of about six and his sights never were raised above his immediate project, never long-term, never with a consideration of what the impacts of a decision would be for the group: he didn't really grasp anything at a corporate level and preferred to avoid making decisions.   He 'depended on the Lord' for food to arrive, etc.  It worked. Paul had been praying for say bread and then bread would arrive for people.  Paul did not want to pull an Ishmael and presume his own leadership, but decided to wait on the Lord, and recognized John when he came, one of the first to.  \par
\par
God came through but it was a disaster from a human viewpoint, always on the point of total collapse and near-chaos, yet people self-organized and discovered their gifts in a way that would not be possible under hierarchial leadership.  But the self-organizing was surprisingly effective and responsive to needs. Paul regarded it as the church unleashed, citing Frank Tillapaugh's book "Unleashing the Church", just out in 1982 and widely read on the grounds. \par
\par
With the words from Jeremiah 16:14, "therefore will I cast you forth out of this land into the land that ye have not known, neither ye nor your fathers; and there shall ye serve other gods day and night; for I will shew you no favour.", Bishop A. Keith Berg of Ohio  had been declared a heretic and exiled from the denomination, from his settlement, stripped of office and laicized.  He had nowhere to go until he remembered that Jake Profim had established a place out west, and so he and his family arrived after the most painful time of his life. \par
\par
He had put all that behind him, forgetting it to press on into what God had for him now when he arrived.  Paul warned him to pray before going to sleep, particularly on his first night.  Nonetheless that night he had a powerful dream of standing on the lip of a deep, fire-filled pit, out of which came large, unclean frogs, lamentations and cries of despair, and then the rock he was standing on slipped, and he woke, with muscle jerks. \par
\par
Keith Berg saw that decisions were needed and also he found himself doing the actual pastoral work, which he recognized Paul was not capable.  In his view Paul was happy not deciding anything until it was almost too late and letting things happen as much as possible without making decisions "things work themselves out".  Keith Berg deferred to Paul as a result of a rather vague conversation with Jake. Keith Berg found himself, a bishop of many years experience, deferring to a pastor with less than two weeks experience whom he himself would have instantly removed had he had a choice. Inwardly he struggled with doubts: he himself was much more proactive and choleric than the thoroughly passive and phlegmatic-sanguine Paul, who was perfectly happy with how things were going as "all things are in God's hands and timing." Is there such a thing as being too content? \par
\par
"Society cannot function without form and motivation" - F.A. Schaeffer.  "This society has neither," Keith Berg observed, first to Paul and then to Jake. Neither had ever been exposed to Edelmann's "Theory of Society" where Edelmann had laid out how a proper Epper society should function.  "Theory of Society" was seldom heard of until being considered for an episcopal chair, and Edelmann had written in a difficult Latin dialect and was found of ate scholastic language: the work had never been translated, if that was even possible,  but surveyed all attempts Edelmann knew of at society structures, ancient up until his own time in the early 1700s.  Edelmann was not always correct, but his insights were always worth considering.  Keith Berg found himself reading and re-reading Edelmann.  Ivan Ivanovich Bishop Smirnov on Edelmann: "Lycurgus' genius was not as stated by the Spartans with their emphasis on austerity, arms and equality, but raither in the establishment of that novel invention, the Senate as a counterweight between a pure democracy and a pure monarchy." Edelmann never saw the American Constitution, and there was speculation as to what he would have thought.  Keith Berg wished he had either Edelmann himself or Smirnov or van Dyke, his two commentators who were often read instead, although neither was available in English, here. Keith Berg did not wish to create a society but rather establish one, one that ran, instead of what he saw as the present chaos. He knew his limits and the constraints both Jake and Paul put him under.\par
\par
Keith Berg considered his condemnation and exile not his own fault, but a trend among the Eppers that has gone on for generations.  They had gone off the Biblical standard. It was ironic that he decided this in a place that was separatist as what he found himself in. How could this place continue to be separate and still be the light to the world? What sins were they still committing? What errors were they holding to? He kept a journal of his thoughts, especially the ones he felt he could share with no one but God, written in a  an archaic Epper-Dutch dialect, one van Dyke would have used.  He had been exiled, yes, and he was standing on his integrity, without which he was nothing.  But what was it that he was still doing that was sin? He prayed for revelation and repentence, not only for himself but for all those who came. How were they justifying their sin by claiming it to be the will of God, both sinning and take it to that arrogant step of claiming God was leading them into sin? God tempts no one, he knew, and there seemed to be a fog, a lack of clarity, an indeterminedness about all this. \par
\par
Keith Berg struggled with a vulnerability: he was really accountable to no one on earth. He missed the familar Epper structure of a presbytery, churches, and entire denomination. Neither Paul nor Jake saw any need for any structure.  Berg tried to get either one as an accountability partner, but neither was interested.  Nor did he have any clout with which to enforce discipline. Only persuasion, which he had, and a moral authority, which some people were aware of but others were blind to.  He was tempted to leave, but he had nowhere to go and he felt some responsibility for these people who need shepherding. He was tempted to build the ideal Epper society, but that was what the denomination's purpose, and "look what is happening with the CDP". He did not want to create another one. \par
\par
Paul and Jake wanted a society of healthy relationships, reflecting redemption, with organization following, not a dead structure everyone must fit into.  Keith was more comfortable with familiar, tried-and-true structures.  Paul wanted to see what would organically grow here rather than be iimposed in a top-down manner. Keith was willing to work with this, but also wanted a lot more in the way of structure. Neither Paul nor Jake were familiar with Edelmann - they looked with suspicion on documents that had guided the Eppers, given the circumstances.  They needed divine, not human wisdom; what did Edelmann offer there?  Keith did not know how to reply to that. \par
\par
Some took Sabbath as a day of rest and were offended when others did not. Paul regarded the controversy in the light of Romans 14, but one side held it as a legalistic Pharisaic distinction, and the other that they were antinomian. Keith's sermon series on freedom of conscience helped some. They had to accept different ways of doing things without condemning those who disagreed with them.  As Eppers typically lived in settlements where there was no disagreement, this was a new thing. Prophetic words condemning Sabbath breaking and condemning legalism were stopped - they had begun to appear.  \par
\par
\par
Keith witnessed miracles, some spectacular but none with real medical documentation, and Berg  wondered if God was truly present, as Epper thought at the time was that God was so hidden as to be almost absent in action or appearance. How could this really be a day of visitation? Why would God reveal Himself here and now? The Hidden God revealing Himself via miracles, healing, tongues and prophecies?  God remains hidden and reveals Himself at the same time, the chief means that eclipses all others being the life of Christ, the crucifixion, death and resurrection and ascension.  These 'charismatic revelations' are radiation of that same life, when true.  God Himself reveals Himself only indirectly: He is not seen but His actions are observed; as nature declares His glory, so do these things.  So Keith thought. The provision was clearly supernatural.  They never went hungry or unclothed or without shelter.  Keith Berg was humble enough to yield to Paul without rancor. \par
\par
Signs and wonders, prophecies, spiritual songs, etc. were everywhere. Some people arrived who were clearly out of order.  They tended to get sent back to where they came from by Keith Berg, who was embarrassed internally at what he thought was bluffing, as he actually had no authority to do anything.  Paul never wanted to exile anyone but have a big tent without exception.  They simply never discussed the fact that Keith Berg was exiling people.  It worked better that way. He would discuss a problem case with Paul and Jake, if he could, and get a vague consensus that so-and-so must be dealt with. \par
\par
Mark Adams, attracted due to the Woodstock aspect, sleep-walked one night and woke up at the top of the grade down into Snake Woods.  He said he had taken a step into nothing, with the sense of falling instantly into eternal torment and fire, with people screaming all arond him as he bobbed up and down in a lake of fire, gasping the hot air when he surfaced but immediately being pulled under. "It seemed so real.  There could be such a place.  If I die I don't know that I won't wind up there. What must I do to be saved?" he asked Keith, who had the answer. He wondered if Mark was mocking him, but he led Mark to Christ.  Keith watched him to see if there was Christian fruit - there was: he began attending Bible study and left behind some of the questionable people he had been hanging around with. \par
\par
Alice Crowley had a similar experience, but she was woken by a voice before she got to the edge of the slope down. "Go no further this way; turn your life around." It was an authoritative voice, a loving voice, a powerful voice, and she woke and looked around but was alone.  She went back to the settlement and talked to Jeannie, who led her to the Lord. \par
\par
Tim Smirnoff said he did not dream, or did not remember his dream.  But he found himself awake in the middle of the night on the edge of that slope, and he said he had just heard a voice say, "Verily you come to me." Then he woke up, staggered back, and ran back to the camp, terrified. \par
\par
Many people had troubling dreams, nightmares, particularly on first arriving: some were of hell, some were of an immense secret awaiting them in Snake Woods that would lead them to extreme wealth.  Sometimes sleepwalkers were found wandering around the old farmstead.  They typically said that they were dreaming, looking for something, but what it was or where it was, they did not remember.\par
\par
\par
Poltergeists moved things when no one was around. In particular clothing would be knocked to the floor, cots and  lanterns overturned and the fuel-oil spilling, and books were found open, face down on the floor, but never a Bible. It particularly affected people on the south side of the camp without Bibles.  Many of the non-Christians left after scary dreams, these incidents, or other seemingly supernatural unpleasantness. Some moved to the north side of the camp.   \par
\par
Economically, there were wild swings, but then no one was keeping track of offerings, income or expenditures: Paul's view was that the Lord Will Provide. He did, but it was a scramble for people like Jeannie, a planner at heart and organizer of the meals.  They did not starve or go without shelter or medical care or clothing, but they came close. They kept the money in a pile in the stable, and sometimes it was down to a few pennies, more than once empty for weeks at a time. Later the pile was restarted in the Hanger. The thought of keeping money under the same roof he slept under was repugnant to Paul, who influenced others. \par
\par
\par
\lang9 Wild-haired, unwashed, eating insects, grubs and herbs off the land, the Elijah Company   arrived, self-styled prophets. The old POW camp evoked Jeremiah 9:11 to them: they saw Jerusalem and a Levitical refuge city, seizing on 'the refuge city' and allowing it to dominate their vision of what the place was.  Later "the ancient wells are reopened" - the old POW camp wells.   They developed the annoying habit of interpreting everything that happened as a manifestation of Biblical prophecy. They also prophesied that this was where Christ will return and be seen first. They began putting on white robes and assembling at dawn on the hilltop across the quarry from the old camp. That is the spot, they said, and they went through a morning ritual of putting their full armor on for spiritual warfare: this caught on and was popular, particularly among formerly suburban charismatic women.   The Company spent much of their time in far corners of the property, sleeping under the stars and even out in the rain and snow.  Many found them attractive but did not join in some of their more extreme ascetic practices; some joined them but quit when they found they lacked the endurance to sleep outside in all weathers on insects and field-herbs. Where they came from is still unknown. They were difficult to have a conversation with, as all they talked about was the Lord. Or demons. They said the whole property was infested, particularly around Snake Woods, but they cast out demons everywhere as they saw demons everywhere they went. They saw Satan as the Lord of earth and the church as God's invasion force to take back demonically occupied land. Their favorite verses were such as 1 John 3:8 'The Son of God appeared for this: that He might destroy the works of the devil.' And Eph 6:12 'For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms.' Others retorted that the battle-field was the human heart, not the physical land, and they were then accused of platonism. They regarded everyone outside their ranks as spiritually compromised, sold out to the world and the devil and the flesh. They took Jesus' command in Luke 9 literally:"When Jesus had called the Twelve together, he gave them power and authority to drive out all demons and to cure diseases, 2 and he sent them out to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal the sick. 3 He told them: \f1\ldblquote\f0 Take nothing for the journey\f1\emdash no staff, no bag, no bread, no money, no extra shirt. 4 Whatever house you enter, stay there until you leave that town. 5 If people do not welcome you, leave their town and shake the dust off your feet as a testimony against them.\rdblquote  \f0\lang1033  They did drive out demons and heal, and they said the reason other Christians were weak was because they failed the apostolic command. They also held to Luke 10:1-12.  Their number was somewhere between forty and one hundred - they were scattered in small bands and did not use their own names, and sometimes changed names, so they were impossible to count.  They never stayed long in one place.  One band would come, and then another, and the first would leave. Nicholls looked on them as unwelcome beggars. \par
\lang9\par
In sharp opposition to them were the Am Dabar, the Prophetic People, who prophesied against the sin in the camp and said the place would be destroyed by fire and sword.  When someone died by getting too close to Snake Woods, they added by snakes, as with Israel in the desert.  They called for holiness, but rejected fasting as carnal.  They held all-night prayer meetings every night, Scripture readings all night, and rejected much of the charismatic music and worship in the camp as carnal as well.  When the Elijah Company went out to await the Lord, they would not make eye contact with Am Dabar people: they regarded each other as full of the devil, spiritually compromised and sold out to the devil.  That was not the attitude of their leaders as much as their followers.  Keith Berg attempted to reconcile them with each other, but each group said the other would have to give up some of their positions, which they would not do.  Am Dabar regarded the Elijah Company as being formally heretical, and the Elijah Company regared Am Dabar as \i malakos\i0 , spiritually soft. The inference of them being the passive partners in homosexual acts, with which the word was typically associated, was not missed.   \par
\par
On one occaision there was agreement between them.  Paul de le Grande, of all people, called for a Jericho walk around Snake Woods, binding the enemy and telling him to be quiet. Several thousand people marched around Snake Woods once a day for six days in silent prayer, accompanied by the seven shofars that had been found, and on the seventh day they marched seven times around it, and then those who had trumpets and shofars blew them, with the drumming of drums and the clashing of cymbals and everyone gave "a mighty shout".  Many of the Elijah Company joined with Am Dabar in that Jericho Walk around Snake Woods.  After that the nightmares, sleepwalking and poltergeists stopped.  Some people still had nightmares on occaision, but of a more natural kind.\par

\pard\li720\par

\pard\lang1033 Joyce Dunbar found every dumped couch, washer, dryer, etc., in Nicholls and surrounding counties and people hauled it to the Ranch, where some were fixed, some cannibalized, and some sit waiting for their day.  She also dug through the old quarry and the piles of debris. \cf1  \cf0 They were broke, but it did not bother them; they sold what they could as scrap because they were impoverished, they reused some of the debris, whatever they could: money from scrap sales went to hay, to food, to cow manure for planting gardens  Is someone on site using it, and for what, they would ask themselves.  Broken glass became windows, vases, but that took fuel or electricity, both expensive.  Likewise melting copper, dealing with scrap machine steel and parts.  Solar furnaces were constructed. They went beyond the mindset: not a nail was to be  wasted.  Everything was regarded as a gift from God and a resource.  Old washers and refrigerators that were abandoned were brought back to life.  Some things were simply set aside. Joyce had acres of rocky ground with junk on it. She even built her own debris pile.  Some people objected to all the junk strewn over the land. The Lord led her to hangers at Whiteman Air Force Base that she was allowed to take. After they were re-built on the land in a nice row at the south edge of the Midbar, material was moved out of the weather into one of the hangers. One also was used to house the stage for worship: the crowd spilled out the doors onto the ground outside.  \par
\par
Aaron Boom built the first motor-buggy using scrap pulled out of the debris-piles, and some of what Joyce brought, including an old washing machine engine.  It was used to haul some of the heavier junk.  Originally it had a sail, but later a washing machine motor and battery were added.  The first one was low-slung, good only on level ground and slow. Later modifications included solar cells, higher speed and carriages with the larger wheels, and greater capacity and diversity in design. Later motor-buggies were used for passenger travel, general freight and to move rock in and from the quarry.\par

\pard\li720\par

\pard Paul used to say, "You can foolishly hold onto pride, like an ill-gottten treasure, or you can embrace humility, forsaking holding on to earthly treasure and gaining a heavenly one." The Eppers will take anything and eventually find a use for it.  They took  stewardship very seriously and depravation is in their history. Whether people or things, they have always taken what others do not want and turned it into something of great value. They prefer to buy means of production, such as a natural gas welder, rather than an end product, and make what they want. \par

\pard\li720\par

\pard  Paul was not one of the 12 and put himself in the background. He had devoted himself mainly to reflection and prayer and was active in the prayer ministry, although not in leadership. People sought his counsel; others wondered why anyone would seek his counsell after his performance at the Nicholls church.  \par
\par
Earl Mirren struggled as a wannabe prophet, getting it right but at times swamped by the Elijah Company, Am Dabar and other, more outspoken and audacious figures. Joyce Dunbar told him to follow Christ and not to worry about titles. \par
\par
Matthew Erlanger, called Uhr as a pun because "even a stopped clock is right twice a day", interpreted everything that happened as God's judgement and condemnation. Efforts to get God's grace through to him were fruitless.  He and Am Dabar were in agreement, although Uhr never went as far as they did.  But he was more frequent.\par
\par
Others also prophesied but more seldom. \par
\par
New Hope was appalled at some of the goings-on.  Their relationship with the rest of the Ranch became tenuous.  They also absorbed enough ex-Eppers to form a new settlement adjacent, New Luebeck. Both supplied food to the main effort in exchange for some manpower when needed, and cash.  To this day both run cattle and plant soybeans; New Hope is more beef cattle and New Luebeck dairy.  They were quickly self-supporting. \par
\par
Stockwood, a tattooed, bearded, shaven-head motorcyle riding Baptist evangelist worked the crowds, seeking to save the lost and rescue people from the error of Pentecostalism.  He was actually a very gentle person, but his tracts wound up used for everything from toilet paper to fire starters.  When he learned that, he stopped passing out tracts.  But he would get into long conversations about Tozer's \i Pursuit of God\i0 , Chesterton and Francis Schaeffer.  He brought many to Christ who were there for the drugs and sex. \par
\par
\par
People also found treasure strangely attractive.  They heard the stories of the Blythewood gang, the Mueller treasure, the gold convoy, even Blackbeard was reputed to have buried his treasure here, and even the Inca. How did these absurd stories start, Keith wondered.  People realized there was a danger in focusing on treasure instead of God, and with an effort people rejected the attractions of materialism, as Eppers always had, but with an emphatic NO in this particular place. The treasure was 'out there' but of no benefit, instead great danger.  It was identified with Snake Woods: lethally attractive, unknown, mysterious.  If there was treasure there it was not worth the risk. \par
   \par
"We are all forced to make choices at times; at other times we choose without realizing we have chosen. We choose toward what we really value.  Even in the face of God revealing Himself via nature, we still seek treasure elsewhere. But we are also unable to escape the choices of organizations we are a part of and their leadership. Our choices, and the choices of our leaders, build both those organizations and our leaders, and change us."\par
\par
\par
Keith Berg was perturbed at the immorality going on - a place for Christians to gather as a refuge was turning into a drug-infested orgy where anything went, and Paul was not at all concerned, if he noticed it.  "How long before it is clean again" (Jeremiah 13:27). He heard the heart of Father God longing for the holiness of His people. While pondering this, he heard of a crowd laughingly stripping off the skirt of a young woman and pointing to her genital warts. These things were not to be - Keith Berg was shocked to hear Paul says it was the clear hand of God operating in justice, but Keith Berg was interested in things being done in decency and order.  Keith Berg replied that we cannot stand by and do nothing. What can we do? Paul asked.  The situation was almost out of control and people were upset.  If they do nothing, the godly will leave and they will be left with the ungodly.  Keith Berg explained the situation to Jake, who told him to do what he had to do. Keith Berg asked for the assistance of the stone masons to back him up, and about forty people were asked to leave, some of whom threatened to stay anyway or sneak back in.  They were photographed.  From that point on there was a security presence, initially made of volunteers in shifts chosen from people that Keith Berg felt he could trust.  \par
\par
One day a group of people coalesced in one part of the camp around a statue they had made that they called Wisdom, around which they partied, dancing and drinking into an orgy.  Keith Berg came and demanded they stop. It also seemed that they were bowing down to it and directly prayers to it, which they denied and said it was just like a picture, it helped them focus on God, and others said they had, but it was in fun. They had started in fun, but some became serious about it. Keith called it blatant idolatry. They angrily challenged him, pointing out he was in no authority over them.  He appealed to Paul, who came and said he would decide and thought they should all get along, until he thought it over and made a decision.\par
\par
Keith Berg preached that Sunday on Exodus 32, drawing boos and jeers from those who had made the statue.  Others told them to be quiet and listen, but they walked out. the stone masons and others followed them and destroyed the statue, smashed the liquor bottles and scattered or burned the drugs they found, and the two groups fought each other.  The statue makers finally agreed not to make another one, and the other group agreed not to attack them.  But they called the first group to repent and stop the orgies, the drinking and the drugs.  Some demanded financial compensation for their losses. Some in the first group immediately left, others repented, others tried to steer something of a middle course, and the issue simmered. But no one ever built a statue again.  \par
\par
Keith Berg asked Paul what he thought of all this. He said he thought things had been worked out, and he did not need to say anything. \par
\par
A group of "prophets" received word that Jake was to return and rule over them as king and they were to submit to him.  He rejected this and asked Paul to deal with it.  Paul asked Keith to handle it.  How could they object to Jake's refusal, when they were wanting him to come and be king anyway?  Keith pointed out the contradiction, which somehow they did not see, but it eventually took the wind out of their sails. \par
\par
Elias Straedner, now-exiled ex-pastor of an Epper settlement, arrived.  He'd considered himself the well-beloved and respected pastor of a healthy Epper settlement, seventy years of age and thinking about stepping down, when the CDP went after him. No retirement. No pension.  Exile. He was very bitter, shockingly so.  He had been forced to come here because he had no other options, was angry at God, at the CDP, at the whole situation, at those who reported him whom he had thought were his friends but has come to see as Judases.  He would be the last person the CDP would go after, as he had been on it for 10 years himself and thought himself bulletproof. He was an old-line Epper pastor and expected to be addressed as Pastor.  He was bridled when Keith Berg told him not to do that, as that would be confusing to many.  Keith Berg was always aware he was in the assembly, as his glare and disapproving frown in a crowd of rejoicing people was evident.  \par
\par
In sermons Keith Berg addressed his concern about spiritual pride creeping in among some who seem to self-congratulate, as if they were the elite Christians and those who stayed Epper were at best half-awake or spiritually dead. He longed for them to be clean from spiritual pride and return to the ancient humility of the Eppers. Rampant pseudotheology based on popular authors engendered in him some sympathy for the Committee on Doctrinal Purity: this is what happens without checks.  He considered how to set up sufficient theological freedom so that it was not dead without allowing heresy to blossom. He spent time in prayer for structure.  In his view, Jake and Paul provided nothing that could be regarded as effective oversight.  Neither was ever a bishop: Keith Berg had been, and he was keenly aware of the need and the lack. Neither of the others was.  At the same time he had to address the antinomianism and lack of restraint present in some. It bothered him that he seemed to be coming off as the bad guy - and that Paul sometimes seemed to be allowing, or at least not ruling out, licentiousness. \par
\par
Paul thought their job was to love, and it was God's job to sanctify. Accordingly, there would always be a group of "sinners": a good thing, because they would be converted into Christlikeness.  Keith Berg agreed, but there were limits.  Was Keith Berg wise enough to set those limits? No, but they had been worked out among Eppers over centuries.  How did those work for you, Paul asked, but more gently than that. He of course had been exiled by those clinging to that working out. He had nothing more to say, and Paul said they had to revisit the whole subject, rethink it, and they did not have it clear yet. Better to err on the side of liberty than on the side of legalism, which seemed to be an Epper error. The Eppers had been happy for a long time without the CDP and they did not need to have one here. \par
\par
A  CDP-laicized Epper elder, Aaron Adams arrived, but his wife and children chose to stay with  Adams's former settlement. Keith Berg wanted pastoral help, but Paul did not want every pastor or elder who arrived to become a pastor or elder here, and Jake agreed: Jake would have to think that issue through, but he never did, and left things as they were.  Aaron Adams quietly accepted the fact that he was not to pastor and found employment in the quarry, although not in heavy lifting.  Years later Mrs. Adams and the kids came.  Aaron Adams had to forgive her and reconcile even though they had both moved in different directions. There had been reasons why she had stayed behind that were still there.  Aaron stopped his good female friendship that he suddenly found extremely inappropriate. He had to admit that he was never divorced, despite the separation, and he was about to fall into grave error when his wife arrived. \par
\par
Matthew Erlanger pointed out the confusion and lack of order as against the God Who thinks all things should be decently and in order. They were not.  He had no solutions, just criticism. He was painfully on the mark, and Paul thought it is rightfully an inspiration for prayer and seeking direction from God. It annoyed Keith Berg. \par
\par
Keith Berg had to address a man who continually prophesied gloom and doom and telling people they would die if they do not repent.  Prophecy was restricted to church services or in the presence of, for now, Paul or himself, and Keith Berg seems to be carrying the bulk of it.  No 'parking lot prophecies', please. No words one on one without someone else there for the sake of decency and order, and preferably himself. \par
\par
A loosely affiliated group of what came to be known derisively as the prosperity prophets, who never organized but just all said the same thing, declared that God would green up the land, there would be a world-wide wave of healing and supernatural works emanating from here, and Christ would return here first. This would be the new Zion, the new City of David, the new Jerusalem, and peace would go out from here like a river to all the nations.   Some of what they said seemed to have originated with the Elijah Company.  But it seemed like the idea that Jesus was to return here first rose from many different people.  Keith Berg wondered about it, and recalled that the Lord would appear everywhere at once, not in one place.  But that did not seem to slow it down. \tab  \par
\par
Due to the water shortage(s) they cut retention basins in the rock in choice places to catch rainwater. Keith Berg had to resolve the situation that the Honeybucket Brigade could not seem to learn that the basins were not where sewage was to be dumped. The rainwater needed to be purified anyway.  They dug sewage lagoons for sewage. Then was the first run-in with environmental agencies, as they got no permits initially and saw no need. Water percolating over rock worked like a trickling filter and even allowed soil to be caught in the algae.  Keith Berg got caught in the dispute between the regulatory agencies and the Honeybucket Brigade, as it was called, in charge of the sanitary sewers.  Originally they were name that because before there was any plumbing to the trailers, they would go trailer to trailer once a day and collect the waste. \par
\par
Keith Berg addressed a looming moral corruption among some who claimed to follow Christ.  Their antinomianism led to a shift where anything goes, even to the point that fleshly sins were not considered sins. Not everyone was capable of living to Epper standards, but that did not mean everything was allowable. Keith Berg had been preaching for holiness and against sin:  the group had become corrupt, maintaining an ostenatious and superficial asceticism even while, like medieval monks, going from door to door looking for money, prophesying unending wealth and peace over this New Jerusalem if people would only bless them. The pickings were few on the property, and they even tried this in Nicholls, which had little tolerance for beggars. Keith Berg consulted Paul and Jake.  Those who would not repent were exiled. \par
\par
The final straw was in the Sunday services: they sought to give prophetic words that would increase their own popularity and power.  Keith Berg told their leader Servant (they named themselves not by their given name, but by other things.  Morning Star, Endurance, Humility, Brook, Long Grass were some of the more well-known members) to stop.  They also seemed to have wanted to take control: they had a good deal of influence. Aaron Boom, among others, gave them a great deal of money.  \par
\par
One day Keith Berg realized no one has seen anyone of the Elijah Company for some time  They seem to have left and were never seen again.  Their influence remained chiefly in the People of Praise and the tradition of awaiting Christ at dawn on the hilltop across from the quarry.\par
\par
False prophetic types, led by a Karl Sallow (no known relationship to Roger Sallow, but he took advantage of the good name of Roger Sallow), prophesied of the glories of the New Jerusalem and immense wealth and health that God will bring about and that the drought will end very soon.  Along came David Wellbelove-Hatman, of another caliber.  He prophesied that the current drought was of the Lord and they needed to repent.  He also denounced the false prophecies as the imaginations of men's minds.  They accused him of creating dissension.  In return he accused them of lying, self-indulgence, and speaking the Lord's Name when He had not called, appointed or sent them.  They tried  to shut him up. At first Keith Berg tried to find middle ground, but there was none.  The prophetic ping-pong went on for several weeks, after which Paul and Keith Berg said  prophecies must be cleared with Keith Berg or Paul before being spoken in service and then written and approved, then read as written: nothing spontaneous.  Paul, however, in practice allowed ping pong, saying how else are we to judge prophecy unless we hear it? This was something Keith Berg had to live with patiently.  Threats were made against DW-H but he continued, even confronting his accusers bluntly.  Unknown assailants beat him up in his tent one night.  He continued to prophesy, adding woe to those who assaulted him in a heated confrontation between himself and these false prophets, whom he accused not just of delusion but of deliberate manufacture of false words, with the aid of the occult rather than heaing the voice of the Holy Spirit. "Are our dead bodies to be found slain in the fields," they mocked DW-H, "or are we to starve to death in the cities? What fields, the bare rock here? What city? These tents? When did the voice of prophecy pass from us to you?" He retorted that they are already in a land they did not know, and neither did they understand the times. If they did, they would have recognize the voice of the Lord.\par
\par
Keith Berg heard about the final encounter second hand: "We cannot accommodate false teaching or false prophecy", DW-H said.  They are leading people astray and promulgating falsehoods.  Who has the Holy Spirit, they demand, and he retorts that it is the one who is obedient to Him and not resisting Him or lying about him.  They are prophesying a false vision, even diviniation, vanity and the deceit of their own heart - if they do not know they are lying.  They demand he take it back but he will not.  He says if the Ranch does not repent they are in for more chaos, poverty, drought, even illness: the Biblical judgement is drought, sword, famine, pestilence; the peace here is superficial, a false peace, displeasing to the Lord. Since when is it wrong to call people to repentence?  When they do not need to, is the response.  He is upsetting people, he should leave if he will not be quiet.  God has told him otherwise.  Jesus offended many and he only offends when God has told him to. It is good that they are offended: the proper response is repentence, not a hardening of the heart and anger.  They angrily ended the discussion by walking out. \par
\par
That night DW-H was beaten so badly he needed to be taken via ambulance to a hospital. He was moved to a larger hospital in Harrisonville, as the Nicholls hospital was very small.  A moratorium was called on prophecy and tongues until things cooled down; angry denials that they had anything to do with it rise from those who had been prophesying health and wealth, and they had alibis.  The Sheriff investigated; it ended as a cold case because he did not find sufficient evidence and he has other, pressing investigations. He also suggested they do their own police work.  "From now on," he said,"You do your own police work.  This whole half of the county doesn't pay a cent in taxes and you are your own world anyway." \par
\par
Keith Berg visited DW-H in the hospital. He checked his understanding of the encounter with DW-H, who related that to doctors, to the sheriff, and now, for the third time, to Keith Berg, so maybe he was starting to remember it wrong, and he was tired. So instead of a line-by-line, Keith Berg stated that he had never seem him err and had heard no criticism of him that he regarded as valid, nonetheless he felt he must ask him if he had been impolitic, overly blunt, harsh.  He said what he need to say, he responded. Sometimes things need to be said a certain way to get across. For DW-H's personal safety and health Keith Berg advised him to not return to the Ranch. at a minimum at night. The beating left him with permanent injuries that would make living in the tent city very difficult. He hoped Keith Berg was not on the side of those prophesying falsely? No; this was his pastoral advice for DW-H.  DW-H conceded it would be impractical, but he was not afraid. He said he had been thinking about the verse that stated if they will not receive you in one city, go on to the next. DW-H was happy to have suffered for the Gospel. His family came and took him back home to Chicago. Keith Berg decided that information was confidential. On his return to the Ranch Keith Berg found a new sign up at the entrance: "I will give you lasting peace in this place." He identified it as from Jeremiah 14:13 and he asked Paul to take it down, which he did after some discussion. Normally it would not have been a problem, but in the present situation it was divisive, and Keith Berg knew why they had put it up. \par
\par
That finally and completely ended uncontrolled public prophecy.  Soon an Agnes Rummage came, with the same message of 'Repent', delivered to Paul and Keith Berg as prophecy was shut down. They permitted her to give it.  The health and wealth people were silent, and they slowly left. She was offered a bodyguard, but she declined. She would just as soon go see Jesus. She was here as long as He wanted her here, and nothing could stop Him, so no. She stayed one week.\par
\par
Keith attempted to dilineate between personal piety and corporate piety.  There is supposed to be a balance: we walk both individually with God and as a body of believers.  Both are necessary.  You cannot rely on the corporate life of the church to save you - personal belief is necessary, but neither can you rely on your own piety - your personal faith must be expressed in the body, if there are other Christians around. There are the first three commandments, but then the other seven. Up and out, not just one or the other.  \par
\par
\par
Simon Brot, exiled Epper, arrived.  He was guided by shterniggeit, Epper occult mysticism that had been condemned for over 350 years.  He was prohibited from spreading it on penalty of exile.  \par
--\par
\cf3 the Straedner bit is kind of fun.  Not sure it is essential, though. I think it helps us understand the Eppers, Keith, and some of the opposition faced by the principals. \cf0\par
\par
"Tell m'Lord Berg that Pastor Straedner has arrived, and desires to speak with him at his early convenience," the same said to Joseph, his man-servant and sometime amanuensis. Joseph had chosen to go into exile with his Pastor rather than enduring the suspicions that would have remained, had he stayed behind.  It had been difficult, and still was difficult. This Bishop Berg had been tried years before and exiled, and now Eppers had nowhere to go. Except here.  It was quite possible Pastor Straedner would encounter someone he had sent into exile during his time on the CDP.  It has been quite unmaginable that he himself would be tried and exiled, but now, here he was, in this Epper Gulag. That was his impression of the place.  This was where they sent criminally heretical Eppers.  It was a prison camp without guards.  How fitting that it had once been a prisoner of war camp. \par
\par
Pastor Straedner frowned at the office-trailer. It certainly did not fit the stature of a prince of a church, even in exile. It was a vacation trailer, the sort of camper you haul behind a truck.  The wheels had been replaced with concrete blocks. The trailer had a tarp stretched over it to form a canopy, under which there were two picnic tables.  But no one was in view.  He touched his waistcoat, now a plain black one, and sighed.  He had had an elaborate one, the Wonder of Berlin, with crosses in intricate patterns of silver and gold thread. But that was behind him.  He frowned at his pants-legs, still mud-free (there was remarkably little mud here, and a lot of rock passing for grass, to the shame of those dwelling here), and at his shoes, now slightly scuffed.  Joseph would have to restore the polish before he saw the Bishop. who was sure to take note. \par
\par
The Bishop had said he was available today, but that was a week ago, before the long drive, and schedules change and they had been out of contact.  Missouri. Misery. What a place.  It was hot and humid.    Here he was, standing in the sun. Unbecoming to a pastor, but what choice did he have? And what was keeping Joseph?  He considered a tart remark, then abandoned it. Patience, Elias, patience, he told himself. God had a purpose even in this. A house fly inspected him and then flew off. He wondered about the sanitaton, and sniffed.  The smell was country air, with no hint of pollution. \par
\par
Now he was sitting on a folding chair, of all things, as was Bishop Berg. They were in the one small room in the trailer. A card table had been folded and was leaning against the wall.  A small bookcase and a filing cabinet were the only other furniture. There was a broom in the corner and a large thermos that smelled of coffee on top of the bookcase, as well as a few coffee cups upside down. Pastor Straedner had been confused on entering, as there was no kneeler and the Bishop was wearing a t-shirt that said "Love God and Do What You Please", of all things. The walls bore marks of the removal of counters and the former camper equipment, although it had been repainted.  \lang9 A poster proclaimed "Poshlost Free Zone" on the wall.  It was unfortunate if there were Russian Eppers here.  He viewed them as semi-barbaric, strange, uncivilized. 'Poshlost' was Russian but he could not remember the meaning.  Probably crude, if it was the Russians.  But then this was a Bishop, and his name was Berg. There was a plain brass cross opposite the door. \lang1033\par
\par
"I am Keith Berg," said the Bishop.\par
\par
"I am Pastor Elias Straedner," said he, putting a gentle and respectful emphasis on "Pastor', lest he be thought he was rebuking a bishop and to demonstrate his deference. He was used to kneeling before his bishop and found this folding chair arrangement quite odd, disconcerting, disorienting.\par
\par
"We are not long on titles around here.  I do not use the title of Bishop. It is no longer appropriate. I was laicized, as you may know , and we reserve 'Pastor' for those fully recognized as such here.  Currently that would be only Paul de le Grande, but he does not like it. In your correspondence you filled me in on everything that has happened to you, which is all too common these days. I am afraid you are not recognized as a pastor here, and it may be very difficult, because you have been called that for forty years."\par
\par
"Fifty," said the ex-pastor, feeling it. It was like exsanguination. Like the discovery that there were charges against him.  Like the end of his trial. Like leaving his settlement, knowing it was no longer his and he would never return. Loss on loss, pain on pain, blow on blow.  Each bearable, but the sum - sometimes it seemed like a mountainous weight, more than he could bear. \par
\par
"If I may say so, you will have to work on your identity in Christ instead of in your ministry. You may find it very refreshing. Invigorating and encouraging.  Maybe not at first.  It took me a while to get over no longer being a Bishop, let alone a pastor. Enjoy being free of the burdens of being a pastor. Smell the flowers. Enjoy life.  Be grateful for what you have."\par
\par
They looked at each other for a moment.\par
\par
"It may take some time of mourning and grief for what you have lost - and I share your pain - but for the good and health of your soul, you must move on. Do you agree?"\par
\par
Of course he agreed.  He almost said, "As the Bishop wishes," but he held his tongue, and merely nodded.  Words were failing him.\par
\par
"Where shall we live? How shall my man servant find us living quarters?"\par
\par
"As for that, I have spoken to Joseph.  He is no longer your 'man-servant' and wishes to start his life anew. Apart from you, I am afraid."\par
\par
"He was under vow."\par
\par
"An unjust vow. I released him from it."\par
\par
The Pastor did not know what to say.  He flushed, remembering that it had been forced on him almost against his will.  But isn't that what servants are for, to do what you want even against their own will?  But there was justice here that cut across the past. He would have to admit that the Bishop had done right.  A servant could approach a bishop and be released from a vow.  And the pastor could not utter a word in protest. That was the system he was familiar with.   \par
\par
He did not recall the Bishop's parting words as he made his way, as directed, to the Medical Center for a thorough examination.  This was a blow, perhaps the final blow, the final separation: Joesph had been his faithful man-servant for many, many years. He'd been in every meeting, taken every note, acted as personal secretary, chaffeur, screen, polished his shoes, done laundry, even made his bed and arranged for cooks, all household staff, everything, so the Pastor was free to pastor. And now he was gone, and so was Mrs. Straedner, who, painfully, had chosen to stay with the settlement while her husband was exiled.  That had been betrayal, almost unforgivable. He could not have believed it of her.  And the children as well. He had always put the ministry first, as he had told her while they were courting, and she had always accepted it.  But he had thought Joseph loyal.  \par
\par
It was not a proper medical center.  Only a house, if obviously Epper-built.  The doctor made him sit in the waiting room for twenty minutes to see if his heart rate would be reduced.  He was under stress. He found himself pouring out his heart to the doctor, who listened quietly. "Not the first time I have heard such a story. I am sorry; I am sure Keith Berg gave you good advice."\par
\par
"The bishop?"\par
\par
"Well, we do not call him that."\par
\par
He looked at the tent with distaste: a bright and cheerful holiday tent, with bright yellow and green stripes.  He went inside and found four cots, the empty one was obviously his. On it he deposited what he had been carrying: a change of clothes, linens,pillow. On the little table at the head he put the small clear bag containing a bar of soap and a few other hygiene items and the flashlight.  He turned it on and off again and made sure it was still working. He had his own familiar, personal Epper Bible with the English and the Hebrew and the Greek, underlined and marked up over the years. That was it.  That was all he had, except for his polished leather shoes which went under the cot. Pastor Straedner looked around his new quarters with distaste.  He had been told Joseph was in another part of the camp and in all likelihood they would not be seeing much of each other.  His cot was just like the other three. He looked at his new workboots, well-crafted of leather, with distaste.  They were already on his feet, of course, which had happened back at the Hanger.  The other three beds were neatly made and there was a plastic tub with a closed lid under each, and a few hangers on twine line near each that served as a closet. He arranged his Bible on the little folding table at the head of his cot and the towels on his hangers, the linens and pillow on the cot, but he did not make it up like a bed.  He could not bring himself to do that menial work. Instead he carefully sat on the cot and leaned over, hands clasped, and attempted prayer. \par
\par
Nothing came.  There was the sound of the camp: children laughing, guitars and singing in various directions, the clanging of a kitchen as lunch preparations were underway, and talking, talking, talking. English. Dutch. Russian. Japanese. Other languages he did not recognize. People smells, and behind it the smell of prairie grass, his own sweat smell. What had they said about showers?  He sat there in darkness, at the end of everything, nowhere to go, nothing to do, known by no one, knowing no one. \par
\par
How long, he did not know.  There was a cough. "If I may interrrupt your prayer," said the young woman,"We have found a work assignment.  You will be in the Hanger itself, helping new people come in. We understand you are fluent in Koine and German, and can sustain a conversation in Russian?"\par
\par
"Well, I have some Arabic, Hebrew and Aramaic as well," Pastor Straedner declared, letting her know in no uncertain terms what her place was. "But yes. That is what I said. I assume I will be giving them counsel and direction?"\par
\par
She laiughed. "If you can call it that.  You will be taking them to go see the doctor, and if they have language troubles, you will take them there and interpret. And explain about the boots and the snakes, among other things, like what dining hall they are assigned to, what tent, what showers and latrines: basically taking them through orientation, if you want to call it that, just like what you did before you came here. Tell them to get their stuff and find their tent. Now, can you find the Hanger from here?"\par
\par
"Certainly. It is very obvious."  Well, it was sort of pastoral work. In a way.  He would be of some limited use, which was more than he might expect. At seventy-four, used to a sedentary life and set in his ways, he certainly could not work in the quarry.\par
\par
"Well, good. Some people have trouble. I see you have not made your cot up."\par
\par
"Well, no."\par
\par
"Do you know how?"\par
\par
Perhaps she would do it for him? There was a moment of eye contact. They she said, "You can watch your tent mates. They can show you.  I'm not making your cot up for you.  That is your job.  A cot needs to be made up,  for neatness, and it keeps the bugs out -  and other creatures.  And we have standards. "\par
\par
\par
"People have been complaining.  You need to look friendly."\par
\par
"Friendly. Well."  The people who had been arriving were, shall he say, not the sort he would want in a settlement, and he thought they should take the hint and leave.\par
\par
She looked at him for a moment. "I am sure there is something else you can do here.  How about if you go back to your tent until we find it?"\par
\par
How utterly humiliating. \par
\par
 When he got back to his tent he found his shoes, his good pastoral shoes, his expensive shiny black shoes, his familiar shoes that had seen years of good comfortable use at weddings, funerals, baptisms, sermons, services, counseling, meetings, etc., were missing. It was like they were a part of him, another part, now missing.  What was left of him? What more could be taken?  It was clear this was a den of thieves.   It was clear to him that he had gotten so comfortable as a pastor that he had gotten to relaxing his spiritual disciplines, like trust.  He needed to work on that. And joy. Hope. Faith. Love.  Everything, in fact.  His soul was a shriveled up ball of frustration.  Well, he would meet the challenges.  1 Peter 1 and all that.  \par
\par
He frowned suspiciously at the two workers outside the tent.  They were cutting a shallow groove into the rock, presumably to drain water.  There was a whole system of these little grooves being cut that led down somewhere, where they caught all the rain water. They did not have the shoes.\par
\par
"Ah- Mr. Berg."  The good bishop - how could a pastor not call him that: he would have to train his mind -  had changed into a suit and was sitting under the canopy, his stole in front of him. Beside it the Order Of Services was open and his finger was tracing out the text.\par
\par
"Keith." Keith looked up questioningly. "What is wrong?"\par
\par
"A great number of things."\par
\par
"I am sorry to hear that.  I am on my way to a funeral in Nicholls.  The funeral of a small child, in fact, one who died here a few days ago. Elizabeth Mirren, three years old and very sweet.  She will be missed. You are, I see,  dressed for a funeral." He looked at the pastor for a moment. "I think you should come with me.  Yes, I think so."  Despite the boots, soon polished to perfection, he found himself assisting at funerals. It reminded him of days long ago, in his pastoral internship, and was pastoral work.  He also realized that there were others worse off that he was, many far worse.  His grim face and sober manner was reassuring to many Eppers in times of grief and a comfort, and he found he could comfort people simply by silence and presence.   Keith did not allow him to lead through the order of service, even though he knew it by heart. He was not allowed to speak unless spoken to.  It was sort of the role of an amanuensis, which was familiar and thus a comfort, and he implicitly understood that he was not to proffer his opnion, and then as little as possible.  Some of what happened was not what he would do, much was unheard of, and it was an education.  But he was silent on those things.  \par
\par
"What do you do between funerals?" Keith asked him one day.\par
"I go to my tent and wait until summoned."\par
"I think it would help us all if you got to know some of the people.  If you don't mind me saying so, You come off as aloof.  I know they are not Eppers. But you have to love people where they are at. Jesus does."\par
\par
"Well, yes."\par
\par
"We have many good people here it would benefit you to know. And I think it benefits them to know you." \par
\par
----\par
How did what must have been more leadership struggles than portrayed so far not happen, with this weak level of leadership?  Very passive and absent.  How did that work? How was Paul not faced with potential supplanters and people demanding more vision and action from him? He would tell them to go and do whatever - some things worked, some things crashed and left a mess.  \par
\par
A teenage girl named Renee is raped and chooses to bear the baby to term.  Keith promises her the full support of everyone, especially of himself and his wife. New Haven takes her in.\par
\par
The area where trash was burned and waste dumped acquired the name Tophet.  It was a mile southeast of the camp. \par
\par
\ul\b  C. J. Owen\ulnone\b0    July 1975\ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 viewpoint of C. J. Owen\par
 \par
It was still "Woodstock West": in chaos aside from self-organizing efforts as needed and necessities. But no overall coordination or structure existed.  Paul was still happy with things as they are.  Keith Berg was doing what he could. There were 6,000 people here: he hoped they would not stay. They were mostly in tents. People provided their own shelters, generally commercially made family tents or even two-man tents, down to dining flies, tarps, sheets of plastic. And others were in campers.\par
\par
CJ drifted in with a boyfriend for the drugs and Woodstock West, not knowing anything about the place.  The boyfriend abandoned her but he was easily replaced.  Jeannie de le Grande befriended her. Alarmed, she took off for San Diego but soon returned.  She gave her life to Christ and became Jeannie's Girl Friday, helping out here, there and everywhere, the motherless daughter of a daughterless mother. \par
\par
Joyce Dunbar fouind an amazing number of army surplus tents - this was at the same time that Paul was urging people to leave for the winter.  People took that as a sign of permanence, and the realization came to A Keith Berg that people  were here to stay, to build the Refuge City. Instead of POWs they were people of peace.  That caught on among some, having risen in the Elijah Company and now more widely.  \par
\par
C.J.'s friend Shelly discovered the biting ants had moved into the refuse piles and spent several days in the med center as a result, also getting cut on the broken glass, wires, and pieces of metal sticking out.  The piles were staked off with twine marking the do not cross, but a few teenagers crossed to their harmt. They were then all fenced off.  Miles Mirren, former professor of Greek at Reformation College, took charge of this.  No snakes were seen in them.  He had a fascination with herpetology and cataloged the snakes to be found in the area, including those down at Snake Woods.   He was the first to capture one and study it. Miles Mirren also fenced off the farmhouse, barn, chicken coops and outbuilldings.  They were reluctant to tear them down due to possible historical value although they were long past repair. Some of Miles' fencing had to be redone.  He published several articles on the snakes of Nicholls County.  \par

\pard\li720\par

\pard The Mueller family, after having considered offers from Johnson (Johnson claimed the Phelps Diamond as his, if it was ever found - he claimed his ancestor had bought it from Phelps and it was stolen from his ancestor, that he had promised his father and grandfather, who had searched for it, that he would search as well), whom they found repugnant, donated the entire Ranch to Jake Profim.  From that time it was referred to as the Profim Ranch, and then just the Ranch by those who lived there.  Those in the town of Nicholls often called it the Mueller property, or the Mueller Ranch. \par
\par
Missouri DNR took an interest in Snake Woods and put up warning signs. There were legal complications because they wanted to turn it into an endangered species reserve, but that seemed like uncompensated siezure of private property and they hesitated. The compromise position was the signs, which they were allowed to maintain.\par
\par
\par
Bad things seem to happen to Shelly on a consistent basis.  CJ was rather phlegmatic, but Shelly was a true-blue, blue melancholic. Woe is me, why do these things keep happening to me?    Shelly provided contrast and gave insight into how CJ approaches life.  CJ just shrugged, had no answers, asked if Shelly deserved this or worse, had to take it up with God, etc. At the same time Shelly was the one who got the donation package from the Muellers' attorneys.  So she learned to appreciate all that God sends her way, only the learning is difficult.  Blessing came to the Ranch through Shelly but it was not always in a conscious or even active way.  Shelly realiized she has mood swings and it is something she has to deal with. Struggled with near bipolar disorder. God is the intimate stranger.\par
\par
During this stage of Ranch life there was some one on one accountability but no real overall discipline.\par
\par
"I never asked for an easy life," was a catch-phrase at the time,"and I would not want one.  I want one that glorifies God."\par
\par
"Gross," CJ said, the first time she heard it.  But then she came around to agree with it. \par
\par
CJ met God: He had not abandoned her. She had been seeking to be significant, to be someone, to do something great.  She comes around to the idea that she is significant because God made her, but that is a cold, distant, intellectual significance.  Cannot she feel it in her heart and not just 'assent to an intellectual truth'?  Jeannie listens. "I will pray for you."  How can she accept the fact that God accepts her, contrary to what CJ sees and knows in herself?  She will have to assent to that and eventually her emotions will come around. \par
\par
Elias Straedner confronted Jeannie on what kind of a sinner CJ was: Jeannie should not be befriending her, based on what she had done.  Jeannie told him the day of the Pharisees is over and CJ is now leading a holy life. Is he so without sin that he can say anything? He says he is.  Jeannie does not think so.  He concedes the point that he has been very judgemental and apologizes. Appalled at some of the things he sees that are not dealt with, he moves to New Hope. \par
\par
Matthew Erlanger paid more attention to CJ than she is comfortable with, but it is not enough to say anything.  She saw him at first as a grandpa, in touch with God, then as a creep with a warped view of the world. \par
\par
There was tension in the church between Eppers who wanted traditional service and charismatics who regarded such as dead.  This was resolved in the establishment of settlements, and those desiring traditional service could church there. \par
\par
CJ found herself discipling Sarah, a woman who in her thirties.  She had been a pleasure worker for a major hotel chain, but they had fired here when she was no longer up to their beauty standards.  Somehow she found her way here, bereft of meaning.  Her major problem was living below the line of despair and discovering there is real value and worth in God's creation.  Although she had chosen to serve the gods of this world, men with power and wealth who used her, God had mercy on her. She now cast  off relativism and accepted  the love of God, far superior to the contingent love she had made money off of. Somehow, in the midst of this discussion, an emotional awareness came sneaking in and CJ felt the love of God.  Previously she had looked around at others caught up in worship, not feeling that love, but now she did and could worship God with all her heart. \par
\par
CJ was responsible for picking up and sending mail.  Not long after that she found herself driving to Archie daily, as the Nicholls post office was difficult to work with. \par
\par
The Nicholls county and state political parties took an interest in the Ranch as apparently people were there to stay, but Eppers are non-political to an incredible degree and they could get no traction. Olivia Kushtov, a Russian Epper, got interested but found she was the only one. She eventually moved to Nicholls and became involved in Nicholls city-county politics. Johnson co-opted her, bankrolling her campaign for mayor, but she lost because Nicholls did not want anyone as mayor with a Ranch background. \par
\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 4 Order From Chaos\par
\par
\ulnone\b0\tab Mark "the Potter"  Oct 1975\par
\par
His brother exiled, Mark Kikker left with him for Profim Properties.  Mark was taken care of by his brother and he decided to go with him.  Mark was an idiot savant.  Keith Berg prayed for him perfunctorily, and there was a slow but major improvement.  Mark started his pottery business, which flourished, and they got into the highly lucrative field of medical ceramics, his brother's background as a pharmacist being useful.  Nicholls Bank put pressure on them to borrow money, starting at very favorable rates and terms.  Mark did not believe in borrowing money.  In his opnion, businesses did much better if they did not concern themselves with money.  This viewpoint stunned the bank employee he shared it with.\par
\par
 Mark found he could no longer sell much in town, and building inspectors regularly cited him for problems with the building. Finally they moved out to the Ranch from Nicholls and sold the building to Nicholls Bank for $1.00. A Mr. Johnson of Harrisonville has been involved, the up-and-coming grandson of the founder of Johnson Bank of Harrisonville. Johnson tells him the story of the Phelps Diamond and how it was stolen from his great grandfather. Had he heard any talk about it out on the property/ If he did Johnson would show great appreciation monetarily.  Mark had not heard anything.  He also was not interested in telling Johnson anything. He thought Johnson was behind the claims that he had not paid taxes and that he had assaulted a woman, both untrue. \par
\par
Later Kikker Industries became a major economic engine for not only the Ranch but Nicholls.  It continues to be wholly owned by the Ranch.  A number of settlements were built in close proximity to each other, each contributing a portion of the finished product. They eventually moved close to the highway and financed their own interchange. With habitual Epper reserve, however, nothing could be seen from the highway and much was underground.  \par

\pard\li720  \i\par
\i0  John Cassell\i : \cf1 ordering chaos\cf0\i0  \cf3 (Simon Brot finds and takes diamond to Snake Woods, John arrives, there is the storm that soliidifies John's leadership  \cf2  \cf0\i\par
\cf3\i0\par
\cf0  Luke Kikker: \cf1\i coming home\cf0\i0   \cf2 questionable as a major character. He should be wrapped in with others.   \cf0\i\par

\pard\ul\b\i0  \ulnone\b0\par
\par
\par
 \tab John Cassell   July 1978\ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 John Cassell was high-energy, even running three miles a day in rural Alaska - at the Ranch he soon increased it to five miles, every day.  He was a natural leader, highly intelligent, fluent in English, French, and of course Koine.  He also spoke Epper-Dutch, which resembled eighteenth century Dutch more than modern Dutch and had a vocabulary difference with standard Dutch.  He could be quite caustic and was impatient with people he thought inefficient, slow, stupid or otherwise not with the program.  Generally he controlled his temper, though, and was, as someone said, "good acid".  He spent much time writing development plans on different aspects of the Ranch, only to find some change or fact that would prevent its implementation.  Paul was uninterested in his reports, and when he sent several to Jake, all he got back was "very nice".  \par
\par
\par
\par
On John's arrival from Alaska, John was horrified by Paul's passivity, but he realized it was backed by prayer, faith and results.  His sentiments lined up more with Keith Berg's as to the imposition of order and structure. Jake and John had met years earlier and a mutual esteem and friendship arose.  Jake told Paul that John was the administrator they had been looking for - "God may supply manna in the wilderness, but there is a time to settle in Canaan and plant crops". But Jake did nothing to implement John as the administrator.   Keith Berg welcomed John and encouraged him to stay and get involved. He began with little things, leading via example and persuasion.  Some obstinate people opposed him as a new comer.  \par
\par
His wife Katy was openly contemptuous of the charismatic movement and the gullibility (in her opinion) of some of the people.   She finally realized these people were not just plastic comic Christians but real people who were struggling with the same God she was, and her attitude changed.  But Katy never really accepted the gifts of the Spirit as active today, and dismissed talk of demonic activity as the product of overactive imaginations and superstition. She admitted that perhaps there had been miraculous activity back in the 'Golden Age' here, she would not rule it out, but she would be very skeptical of any claims of any alleged miracles today.  Hadn't miracles ceased with the apostles? Do we really need to become supersitious and go around praying for healing and casting out demons?  She thought they should soberly pursue the gifts of the Spirit and not focus on such things. People learned quickly not to discuss the miraculous around her.    \par
\par
John encountered opposition from Wilson, an American charismatic layman, obsessively neat regarding his own appearance and critical of everyone else. Wilson considered himself one of the founders of the place and entitled to respect as a pillar of the community, in contrast to new people like John Cassell who needed to be taken down a notch. Wilson was immediately jealous of John: bitter, petty, almost but not quite malicious, always in a way that was one step short of needing a rebuke. Wilson became a bitter foe who would not lead, would not follow, would not get out of the way, and would not leave.   Wilson was  under the impression this was the promised land where he need not work; he'd been here for years and "knew how things worked." He considered his main role to be guildance, although his advice rarely turned out well, but some were convinced by his smooth delivery, his charm and his thorough criticism of everything wrong with the place, most of which were things he took out of proportion, although based somewhat in truth, but he used them to build a group around himself as the one who really understood the place. Wilson had ambitions to be the administrator but neither Paul nor Keith Berg supported that. John wondered why anyone would listen to Wilson, who would speak authoritatively if wrongly on any subject that came up.  \par
\par
Keith Berg knew there were rumblings of discontent, but Wilson hid himself well enough that Keith could not find the source of the problem, if there was a single source.\par
\par
Despite living in New Hope, where he sought to be pastor to no avail, Elias Straedner bitterly opposed John, as he had been on the CDP during the start of John's trial, was among those who voted to oust him, and was now of the opinion he should not be in leadership. John struggled to forgive him and let the past be the past. Did Elias Straedner intend to have a Committee on Doctrinal Purity here and put everyone on trial who had been exiled?  He confessed he was tempted, but he saw that as wrong.  But what were the limits of theology that were tolerated in order to enforce unity?  Unity was not approached that way - it had not worked for the Eppers and they were determined not to go down that road.  Chastened, Elias returned to New Hope. \par
\par
They'd seen no miracles in some time.  Had God forgotten them? Was there sin in the camp? Yes, and they were addressing it continually, as it was like a weedy garden. Was the decision to disperse for winter wrong? Were they "administering" and "managing" in the flesh instead of "ministering in the power of the Holy Spirit"? Key here is "seen": God had been quietly working, but one had to look deep for it. Story of the chicken: one piece of chicken fed everyone. Foundational moment in the history of the Ranch. God was with them in quiet ways even more than in spectacular ones. John is skeptical about reports he's heard of some creepy supernatural somethiing under Snake Woods, which he regards as superstitious hogwash.  \par
\par
John Cassell led them in the emergency of the storm.  After this he was no longer challenged seriously as the administrator.  Jake thought they all perished and regretted  his inattention, especially in not delegating overall responsibility. After the storm Wilson left, as well as several other families.  Jake stayed for a week and listened. He would not live forever and he could not support them forever; if they were going to stay, they needed to become a self-supporting community.  He could not and would not be involved in the day to day of this, and frankly he didn't know how much longer he would be able to support them: he sensed he had peaked, as now places that formerly begged him to come were not even returning phone calls. His would be a long, slow taper as his hour was passing in the US.  Time to pick up on long-standing invitations, still valid, to visit South Africa, Rhodesia and Nigeria. He would order trailers, but they would have to do the rest. Trailers? John wondered.  They would have been better off with deliveries of raw material, such as lumber, and building things themselves.  Eppers typically do not buy finished goods.  Where had Jake come up with this idea? Then he heard nothing about it and figured Jake had dropped the idea, which relieved him of some anxiety.  He began drawing up a list of material that he thought would be good to get instead of the trailers, if Jake was going to do anything.  Funds and gifts had been sporadic, so he tended to dismiss this and it was low priority. \par
\par
With the storm gone, a number of families moved back into tents not far from the stable, but things had changed. Wilson and some of his followers left, the others fit into the new way of doing things.  The Council of Twelve, as they came to be known, had unquestioned authority to make long-term, strategic decisons, which they were intent on using as little as possible. People knew they looked out for each other.  Hard work was expected.  The contract system was established, run by  Administrator John Cassell.  What someone worked established how they could receive housing and food, and people were expected to work as hard as they were able. John hoped to have either a staff of administrators or an administrator in each settlement, but the Council of Twelve stated that would be their decision, which had not been made yet.  The place took on the characteristics of an Epper settlement, if grossly oversized.  Jake turned the property over to the Council of Twelve  in the form of Jacob Profim Properties, LLC. \par
\par
The Ranch began an annual day of thanksgiving centered on a common meal including chicken and potato soup to remember that day.  Many stayed who were on the point of leaving. Many people huddled together for warmth with straw in the stable. Rescue attempt by Nicholls Epper church - Kitten involved and his sons, and Pastor Schmidt, others.   Some people left as soon as the blizzard was over and the roads were clear enough.    \par
\par
Keith Berg was offered the position of Pastor.  He took some prayerful time but due to family concerns he declined.  He also declined a position on the Council of Twelve, as he felt he would be overly influential and that might be a back way to him being the de facto pastor. The Council looked to him for advice and leadership. He was the de facto pastor.  He preached, counseled and taught on a part-time basis.  Elias Straedner made it known that he should be on the Council, or the pastor, or the administrator, because John was a heretic.  "We all are heretics," they replied,"and you are one of those who made us such."  Elias Straedner did not take this well. Incredibly, this state of affairs of Keith Berg seeking God's will took until 1990, when he finally declined and they said that was indeed final. Sandy Sands and Joseph Bauer, former assistant to Elias Straedner, were among those chosen.\par
\par
The Council accepted John as Administrator in accordance with 1 Corinthians 12:28. The administrator is not on the Council, being a "thumb to the fingers of the elders" as they put it.  The Council decided to cap the size of a settlement at two hundred families in accordance with Epper practice, effectively breaking the camp into two zones until permanent buildings were built by and for each settlement. There was a lot of debate as to what two settlements there should be to start with.  They finally agree on Hair Bair as the administrative center or capital, with the high school, the Council of Twelve, and major facilities to serve all other settlements.  The second settlement would be concerned with water, always a sore point, centered around where the POW well had been located.  Both settlements were to be self-sufficent but trade with each other and the outside.  \par
\par
Eventually the Council decided that all administrative decisions would be made by them, and no administrators would be permitted in individual settlements.  New Haven balked at this, partly thanks to Elias Straedner, but also because they already had an administrator, Yackob Brodt by name, in place. New Haven agreed to coordinate with the rest of the Ranch but insisted on sovereignty within the limits of its own settlement boundaries.  They stated they would go along with the Council of Twelve where they could but did not consider the Council's decisions binding. The Council found the other settlements mostly taking the same position, even the later ones.  The only one that was fully under the Council was Hair Bair, where the administrator for the Ranch also was the administrator for the settlement.  So they slowly backed off on this.\par
\par
John worked on organizing the settlements properly, with a pastor and administrator and a local session in each, with the Council and the Pastor and Administrator for the Ranch taking coordinating functions, despite unwanted interference from the Council of Twelve. The Council, the pastor and the administrator were not to involve themselves in the independence of any particular settlement, per the historical Epper structure. It took the Council a long time to see this.   They tended to see the Ranch as one settlement with many sub-settlements.  The settlements saw themselves as self-functioning and independent, if on Ranch property.  The Council of Twelve would not sell them the land, but then the Council did not charge rent.  Agreements were written to the effect that if the Ranch was ever sold or changed hands, the settlements would acquire their own land without cost.  At the time, Hair Bair was mainly tents, with a few houses, dining halls, latrines and the Hanger. \par
\par
However, the Council overlooked their inability to bring in any money from outside - typically settlements generate revenue, but Hair Bair did not initially. They were being supported also by the Epper settlements that had established themselves, who also expressed concern for them long-term. For a long time Hair Bair was mostly a  receiving, organizing and sending depot for settlements and had no built-in industry, which was a source of criticism by the other settlements.  John realized it would mean years of poverty but it was the best solution available.  Keith Berg urged them to work on self-sufficiency, but this was disregarded in favor of outside employment: many at Hair Bair then worked outside. New Haven saw no reason for a governmental center at Hair Bair.  At the same time they accepted the idea of some centralized functions, such as a high school there.  Specialization could be done by settlements in the age-old manner, and they thought the Council mistaken in their direction. \par
\par
\cf3 They hired White, Black & Jones, a professional consulting engineering firm as public works director. They hired Serenity4U, full-time, professional, trained Security people who patrol the entirety of the property. This was after multiple marijuana fields, some booby-trapped, were found in various places around the property. Shelly found the first while horseback riding, and then they discovered more.  They burned them all.  They hired a law firm to defend the Ranch against an increasing number of difficulties with state and federal agencies.  All this costs money, in short supply.   \ul\i Is all this really needed?\cf0\par
\ulnone\i0\par
John advocated for holistic management of the desertified areas, starting in the  north, with cattle and a few buffalo to be maintained in common. The Council of 12 were unwilling to obtain more than twenty head of cattle and ten head of buffalo, not nearly enough, and add ten head of cattle a year: anything beyond that should be on the settlements and internal to them. The Council of 12 was unwilling to hire anyone with expertise in holistic land management, and results were mixed. \lang9  They were delighted when members of a settlement in New York state, seeking more land for their aurochsen, and under heresy trial, found an opportunity here.   The individual settlements were doing better, however. \lang1033\par
\par
That spring a deadly flu spread through the property.  It took the elderly and small children. There was grief and murmuring: where was God, who had led them to die in the wilderness?  Karl Sallow, leader of the health and wealth prophets, was among the first to die. Elias Straedner died with only Keith Berg at his bedside.  He thanked Keith Berg for leading him out of bitterness back to Christ, and was ready to meet Him in person. Keith Berg told him that he might have many more years on earth, but Straedner was silent, as he had died.  Matthew Erlanger fell ill, wrote a long angry letter blaming John Cassell, and then died. The letter got out and was dealt with. Others also blamed John Cassell.  He said there were too many people too close together who had come from many different parts of the world - on thinking about it he was surprised there had not been more illness. They set apart land for a cemetary west of the old quarry.   Six head of cattle died of fever.  The other cattle were separated from each other and survived. This again cost money. The leaders called for a time of prayer, fasting and repentence.  Many confessed their sins and those of their fathers publicly in a three-day long meeting. \par
\par
The Johnson Bank launched a lawsuit against Profim Properties, claiming that the Muellers had promised them the land and they found a Mueller to back it up. It was spurious and the Mueller they found could not speak for the family, but that took a lot of time, money and headache.  Johnson Bank filed it in Minnesota and the judge there granted a change of venue.  They attacked the LLC and attempted to demonstrate that the owners were not meeting the fiduciary responsibliities of those living on the land, in fact, that they were forcing them into slavery.  Taxes were also due on their labor and the goods furnished to them.  In Nicholls County court Profim Property attorneys argued it as a religious freedom case and the judge dismissed the suit for lack of evidence. \par
\par
\par
\par
\ul\b  Luke Kikker\ulnone\b0  May 1979\ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 viewpoint of Luke Kikker\par
\par
\cf3 The area where human waste is dumped and is turning into a lagoon is called Tophet. Items that cannot be recycled (very few) wind up here and trash (little) is burned here. It is located about a mile southeast of Hair Bair and the same northeast of Snake Woods.\cf0\par
\par
The old quarry was cleaned out and quarrying resumed. Serenity4U had been replaced by Ranch personnel. White, Black and Jones was only on retainer.\par
\par
A group of people showed up claiming to be refugees: one man, twelve women, and a boy.  They asked for asylum and room to live.  Were they Christian? No, they laughed, we are not.  What are you? We follow an ancient and honorable and peaceable religion, one we do not name out of respect for it.  Something made CJ uneasy, but there is the ancient Epper tradition of hospitality, so she said they could stay overnight.  They had everything they needed and would like to set up separately, as they had sheep and goats with them. Perhaps to the south?  She said it was fine for the night but she expected there would be questions before they were granted any sort of permanent status. \par
\par
The next day John Cassell and CJ went down to talk to them: John had many questions and was uneasy about this.  One of the group broke off from the others and approached them.  She said John and the other Christian could not near the group as they were performing a secret ritual.  He could see the smoke from a fire going up from behind the others, who were chanting.  Everything seemed off, somehow.  There was something evil about the whole thing.  \par
\par
"We are staying," their leader told them after crossing the distance. His hands and cheeks and chin had fresh blood on them.  There was a fierce and wild look in his eye. CJ thought him capable of anything. Anything. \par
\par
"That's blood," John said.\par
\par
"Yes, we have sacrificed.  Our god has accepted our offering and said this is where we are to be. As I said, we are staying."\par
\par
"I cannot permit that," John said.\par
\par
"You have no choice." The leader looked smug.  John decided to returrn the next day in force.  He asked for prayer that night from all the prayer teams. Many of those praying said they sensed resistence to their prayers.  Around the south end of the camp, particularly among those not following Christ, there were strange moans and apparitions in the night.  There was insistent knocking on doors and windows, but no one would be there.  People had nightmares.  One entire family got up and left in the middle of the night and never returned.  Few slept well anywhere - some were called, they said, to pray all night, and others only got restless sleep, with vivid and disturbing dreams. \par
\par
The next morning John and twenty men, armed, went down to pay the newcomers a visit. Their camp was deserted.  They had left in a hurry, on foot, leaving everything behind.  Sleeping bags were in their tents as if they had woken in haste and fled.  There were boots and clothes scattered as if they had run south, directly towards Snake Woods.  Possessions had been dropped and they had fled.  They also found an altar made of uncut stones, and on it was the burned and blackened skelaton of a goat.  There was no sign of their other animals.  \par
  \par
On the rock around the altar someone had incised a pentagram, and there were the pools of black wax from black candles that had been burned all the way down.  \par
\par
There was no sign of them aside from this.  The area was searched.  Snake Woods, of course, was not, and the vegetation there was so thick you could not see into it.\par
\par
They piled everything the people had left into a large pile. They found spell books and literature containing things they never described.  It all went into the pile.  They knocked over the altar and scattered the stones and the goat bones.  Two days later they returned and burned the pile. It gave off a foul odor and burned for days, so watchmen were required.  They obliterated the incised pentagram as best they could.    From that day forward that area had a strange feeling about it - no one went there willingly and nothing was ever built there.  It was called Gehenna and avoided. Nothing was ever seen of those people ever again.\par
 \par
At this time most of the ex-Eppers had formed settlements on the property or had left, and most of the people in the common area, now Hair Bair, were non-Epper, many of whom were passed over by the ex-Eppers in forming their settlements due to lack of skills, personality problems or cultural differences.  The ex-Eppers were typically suspect of American charismatics, finding thime overly emotional, shallow and lazy. The Eppers who remained in the common area felt called to talk care of their Christian brethren. Those who could work worked, mainly outside the Ranch.  Some could not work, and they were cared for.  Those who would not work were asked to leave.\par
\par
Johnson Bank filed another lawsuit, this time in Nicholls.  John Cassell was in court when the trailers suddenly arrived, and were haphazardly left together in the flat area of the old POW camp not far from the gate. People immediately moved out of the tents and into them and refused to move out.  When John returned later that day, he was quietly but absolutely furious - Jake had bought them without telling him, or anyone else, and there were various appurtenances, such as trailer skirts, utility hookups, steps, leveling pads, etc., that Jake knew nothing about and had not provided for - John also knew nothing about them.  Nor did anyone else. Jake had just bought "trailers" and they were delivered, suddenly, all in one day, by train into Nicholls and then hooked up to trailer cabs and dropped off as quickly as possible. The cabs kept returning to Nicholls to get the trailers, which had arrived by train, and after dropping off all the trailers, the cabs left  As they had separated the tents into two future settlements, and now they were mingled, this destroyed the separation.  Moving trailers would require getting a suitable cab and expertise, as well as removing families determined that their tent days were over, and money, etc., so the trailers stayed put.   \par
\par
Luke found a burned-out wagon train: bleached wood of the train south of Snake Woods.  Iron parts and some wood could still be seen. He heard the theory that it had been hauling gold from New Mexico, or maybe it was as in the Mueller myth.  The later settlement of Wagon Wheel was named after this, and the settlement kept it in a park as a display. \par
\par
A marijuana field someone planted in the out-regions had been burned last year, and the year before.  This year they found it booby-trapped.  They disabled the booby-traps and burned the field again.  If that land could be used for pot, it could be used for a settlement.  They urged a settlement be built near it, to farm it and prevent its reuse as a pot field. \par
\par
People also were camping and leaving burn circles and trash behind, which animals would go through and tear up.  Luke had to clean some of this up, including used needles, beer cans, paper plates, styrofoam, human waste, soiled disposable diapers. They were also digging holes. Luke wondered who they were, and if they were hunting for treasure.\par
\par
Mike Profim, Jake Profim's son, was called as pastor in 1992 over newly arrived, nationally known charismatic ex-Epper Pastor Peter Muis.  Soon Mike took a pastorate in California at a non-denominational charismatic church. Some say he was forced out by Peter Muis, others said it just did not work out.  \par
\par
Pastor Peter Muis was then called.  He tried to turn the place into his personal evangelical empire. He would do a grand entry on Sunday mornings into the sanctuary surrounded by his body guards, who would then surround the stage.  He did no counseling and no direct working with any member of the congregation. He had, on the side, a scandalous relationship with a number of young women supplied to him by a shady character named Eddie.  One of them killed him in his sleep and vanished. \par
\par
The Council of 12 decided to wait for the Lord's clear timing for a pastor.\par
\par
The wait for stone houses was long.  People did not wait until they were completed before moving in.   The existing settlement, which became Hair Bair, was meant to be capped at 250 families (250*4=1000 people, still very big for Eppers), and a second settlement, Hair Mayam, was constructed near the water tower. The third was to be near the quarry, with more settlements to follow. They had six thousand people in the trailers, with more arriving and being born.  Everyone understood this would take years. One house was built at Hair Bair, then one at Hair Mayam, and then more people were asked to join in the stone work.  All those who could did for a while, which increased the rate of production some, but the bottleneck was the low number of final stonefitters, a craft that took years to master. They insisted the houses be built right, and after others attempted one, the final stonefitters disassembled it, trimmed every stone, and fit it correctly. \par
\par
Some new-comers, particularly Jedidiah Banknott, offended the townspeople of Nicholls with behavior intended to be evangelism. He went door to door with a four-question survey, itself innocuous, but got in a shouting match with a few people when Jedidiah did not like the answers, being rather anti-Catholic and a number of the people were firmly Catholic.  Keith Berg had to track down who this was, as he received complaints.  Keith Berg speaks on this, repeatedly, on Sundays, as well as counseling those who offended, when he can determine who it was, which is not always possible. Keith Berg was scheduling the Sunday services, preaching, training the worship team and supervising small group leaders, but did not call himself the pastor and refused to be called the pastor, saying he was only a steward until one came. He resisted supporting overtly charismatic efforts, but allowed them. \par
\par
"This is the omphalos, the center of the universe, the navel," Simon Brot said, gesturing to the south."\par
\par
Keith looked at him.  "Most people sense something evil there, something unholy even, if they sense anything at all."\par
\par
"It is good, it is very good. Power flows from there. Do you not hear it calling?"\par
\par
"I am a little concerned - rather, greatly concerned - by your attitude towards it. Fascination, even.  You are, I believe, in great spiritual danger."\par
\par
"With due respect, bishop, these things are truly only to be seen by the inner knowledge given to those initiated into shhterniggeit. I cannot expect you to have inner light, walking in blindness as you do."\par
\par
"I think you say these things at your peril."\par
\par
\f2\lang9\par
\f0\lang1033\par
\lang9 Simon Brot found the diamond, guided by shterniggeit. He took the diamond and advertised shterniggeit "it got me this - interested? It is the baetylus. There are none like it, and it called to me." A dining hall full of Eppers were not interested: in fact they felt a sense of horror, as if he was worshipping an idol, and they rebuked him.  He took it, saying it was leading him, and threw himself into the ravine in Snake Woods, followed by a few people who stopped at the top of the slope down into the Woods.  \cf1  \cf0 It was not regarded as a good thing, but was dangerous because it was so attractive. Luke found himself tempted to go find it and keep it for himself, and so did the others who had seen it.   Very few knew of it, or where it was, yet someone from outside the Ranch offered large amounts of money if they tell him where it was.  It was tempting to take the money and no longer feel the pull of the stone, but that might have been a lie.   \par
\lang1033\par
Tipharah: The People of Praise, as that defined something of what Ranch spirituality consists of, or rather, what it does not, who rejected work in favor of praise, for example, and thought God would provide, like Elijah and the ravens.  For the Ranch Eppers, work IS praise and is wrapped in offering it up to God, not as an end in itself or merely to provide materially, but as embodying materially what the TTPoP stressed was purely spiritual.  They always found someone else to do their work for them, which is why they were asked to leave.   They continually prophesied a health and wealth gospel with antinomian elements.  They were heavily influenced by the Elijah Company, although there was no overlap of actual members, just some hangers-on.\par
\par
Twelve aurochsen arrived from a settlement in upper New York state along with their newly exiled handlers. The Eppers call their breed of very large cattle aurochsen: something like Heck cattle, but originating centuries earlier, or the original breed or aurochsen bred with other cattle is now unknown.  There were concerns about overgrazing already tenuous land. The cattle were northern European in origin via New York and needed shade in the summer. They did not do well in Missouri summer heat without water spray, shade, and plenty to drink.  They were also tick and fly magnets and need to be closely watched.  The Council of 12 considered running buffalo on the Ranch instead, but the aurochsen were a beloved part of Epper culture.  These ex-Epper handlers set up their settlement with everything in common without personal property, everyone eating together and living together instead of being in separate households. Children were commonly raised.  They honored the sanctity of marriage, however.  They were regarded as truly heretical and although still Christian, sort of over the line with their political structure.   It did not work, and a few years later they moved back into the traditional Epper structure, their experiment finished.  \par
\cf3  \par
\par
\cf0 In 1980 corporate raider Ahab Cane Johnson bought a bank in Harrisonville. Johnson had acquired a reputation for massive wealth via hostile takeovers, raping companies and moving on with the profits, leaving shattered lives, companies, businesses behind him.  People who met him spontaneously described him as disgusting, repulsive, utterly foul, vindictive, petty, greedy, carnal and unashamed. The lobby had several displays concerning the Nicholls Treasure and a painting he commissioned showing the Blythewood lynchings while the Muellers, in the background, make off with the treasure. The Muellers were repulsed by some overtures he made, which may be a consideration in why the Muellers gave it to Jake Profim instead. The Ranch had turned down his offers to finance treasure hunts.  He later purchased the Nicholls Bank and added displays about the treasure, antagonizing the town as he removed a display listing bank employees and custormers who had served in the Corps. He or his agents  made numerous attempts to take the Ranch, and later Kikker Industries, willing or no.  Johnson himself is not seen until the last chapter.  \par
\par
The trailer court east of Nicholls was not yet a bad place.  Johnson was in the background as a major property owner - he bought the Nicholls Trailer Court, just east of town, as well as some distressed ranches in the county and leased them back to to the previous owners, at a loss to them.  Likewise with some properties in Nicholls. Some people from the Ranch fell for it with properties in Nicholls -Johnson owned the dry cleaners, among others: people of his are willing to manage it for a fee plus passing through all expenses and profits/losses go to the owners. Read that as losses, because between the loan and the fees, there was no money to be made but taken. \par
\par
Johnson bought the bank. People had to be careful what they said, as it would get back to him.  This was resented, and people began taking measures against his influence.  There was a quiet, slow war between the town and Johnson and the people he controlled. He also contributed heavily to candidates of his choice, many of whom later resented the contributions. \par
\par
Johnson Bank's lawsuit against the Ranch was finally settled with a jury trial in favor of the Ranch after twenty years of legal manuevering. Speculation was that they were trying to burn up the Ranch's finances in legal fees.  Most of the Ranch lawyers worked pro bono against Johnson Bank, who had made a lot of enemies. \par
\par
\par
\ul\b Chapter 5 Marcel\ulnone\b0  September 1998\par
\par

\pard\li720 : \cf1\i established strength\cf0  \i0  \cf3 Marcel is curiously drawn to Snake Woods, \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab but does not get that far\par

\pard\cf2  \cf0\ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 viewpoint of Lydia\par
\par
\cf2 One of the reasons for the some settlements moving into towns was the mandate for evangelism, which could not be done if Eppers were off somewhere, isolated, only really talking to other Eppers.  The original vision of some in the 16th century was that the settlements would be sort of like lay but family oriented monastic structures centered around lives of prayer, Scripture reading and other spiritual disciplines, simultaneously taking in the outcasts from society, the poor, weak, and ministering to the sick. This became a crushing burden and the settlements resolved it in different ways.  Family life, particularly with the large number of Epper children always at hand, precluded much of a family-oriented monastic system for the most part, although some settlements were more or less successful at it for some time.  By 1700 that idea had been pretty much abandoned.  Chrisitan communism rose and fell, some settlements owning everything and others hardly anything, varying by the time and place.  Some settlements failed economically and were broken up, sometimes scattering, some moving as a group into a town, such as happened in Nicholls over a hundred years ago.  \par
\par
Elder Yarrock was of the opinion that Israel might become exiled again if they do not receive the Messiah who already came - some of the prophecies may not yet be fulfilled, for example, regarding one stone on another, and a forest on Zion, neither of which has happened. There might be a third holocaust or exile, the first being when they went to Bablyon, the second at 70 AD, and now Israel seemed godless and secular in many areas - not the pious people of God, but behaving in ways that seemed to provioke God, particularly with respect to homosexual behavior and abortion.  The elder wondered about Americans who uncritically favor Israel when Israel needs to repent - after all, they do not accept Jesus, the reason they were dispersed in 70 AD is still valid.  It is God's kindness that they have returned, His mercy that they are back, but the Elder wonders if there is the sort of gratitude to Him that is appropriate, the zeal and faith to follow Him that He desires; do they desire to follow God or their own desires? He does not know.  He is encouraged at hearing some Israelis are turning to Christ and hopes it will continue. \par
\par
Jerusalem and its kings were not "too big to fail" and we must be humble, he says, very humble, as this Ranch may become too important in its own eyes and recognize that no one is "too big to fail".  He thinks here of Peter Muis, although I am unclear as to how speciific to make that reference or  the time sequence is.  I think Peter Muis was around 1998.  Unless present Israel responds to the Lord, a more terrible disaster may await than they have yet experienced. \cf0\par
\par
Lydia, an ex-Epper, returned to the Ranch with her boyfriend Marcel, who argued with people and experiences some miracles (which he misses).  The Ranch was fully developed, with a network of settlements united by trade, communication and special roads.\par
\par
Six settlements had been built, but there are still hundreds of people living in the old trailer compound. Some liked it there.  Others were new to the Ranch, and others were waiting for new houses to be built. Many trailers, empty, were being removed and the material recycled slowly.\par
\par
Dialog version of the main argument in 'He is There and He is not Silent.'\par
\par
Marcel scoffed. He came having heard of all the miracles but fiound none, and no one could point to one or demonstrate one, as if that was how God acts.  They showed him some who have experienced healing, but there was insufficient proof from his point of view that it was an actual miracle.  Has God abandoned them?  No.  It's a miracle in the sense that Lydia came back to faith, and the mysterious people Marcel encounters.  Miracles occur but were missed. Marcel's view is that of course God has not abandoned them, because there is no god. What kind of a good god would abandon people, he wondered. But his answer was that there was no god to abandon them. \par
\par
"I heard that Epper women can snap their hands like a whip crack - you know, faster than the speed of sound." Marcel looked inquiringly at the jongedamme and her mentrix.\par
\par
"The only snapping around here is at foolishness," the mother said.\par
\par
"Well?" Marcel inquired, one eyebrow raised.  "This was just one of those crazy rumors about Eppers, after all, with no basis in fact.  That's what happened when people don't join society but live off by themselves.  I don't think you can do it."\par
\par
Provoked, the jongedamme snapped her hand.  The sharp cracking sound echoed off the walls.  But before she could look pleased she was rebuked and sent away from facing Marcel.\par
\par
"Foolishness leads men into peril," she told Marcel. "People can be so consumed with idle curiosity that they lose the truth. Hell was built for the curious."  Marcel so felt her disapproval that he sought to say something but could not think of anything. \par
\par
Every Utopia has failed, Marcel said.  We are not trying to build a Utopia but simply to live in peace, the elder responded.  Zion Illinois,  Sointula, the Shaker Settlements, the Amana colonies, the North American Phalanx, Brook Farm, Fruitlands, Bishop Hill Community: all failed.  Monastic orders, Salt Lake City, Mennonites, have all succeeded, mostly. \par
\par
Marcel scoffed at the People of Praise.  Years ago the old 'prosperity prophets' had merged into them.  Their message was health and wealth and Marcel considered them trailer trash Christians.\par
\par
Paul de le Grande spent a lot of time as a hermit in a little stone house he built away from the populated areas. Since he was inactive as a pastor, stayed outside of Epper circles, was quiet and unassuming and caused no controversy, the Epper's Committee on Doctrinal Purity overlooked him. He had no interest in anything outside the Ranch and little within it, except for whatever project he and Jesus were working on at the time.  It was said that in his later years he was in continual conversation with God from waking to sleeping and when he died he simply continued the conversation.  It was said it was llikely that he was unaware when he actually died.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f2\lang9\par
}
 