{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green176\blue80;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 July 6, 2016 10 AM The Ranch\b0\par
\cf1 "Now, scoot,"Mama had said.  She and his three younger brothers were going to take a nap. Isaiah, all of eight years old, had done his morning chores and his arithmetic, reading and Bible - he was starting Greek, and the Gospel of John was challenging  and he was getting energetic. But Mama wanted piece and quiet, so out he went.  Lois, their \i jongedame\i0 , was working quietly in the kitchen.  Like many young women of marriagable age among the Eppers, she was learning to run a household from Mama, who was her Second Mother.  She already knew how to run a household from her own mother, and now she was helping Mama, assisting in the cooking and cleaning and everything that went into an Epper home.  Soon she would get married and have a household of her own.  That was just the way of it, she had told Isaiah.  \cf0\par
He opened the door. Behind him he \cf1 heard Mama quietly asking little Zeke why he had covered himself with butter. AGAIN.   \i Time to go\i0 , thought Isaiah. He didn't want to stick around for what might happen next.  Despite his urgent need to get out of there, Isaiah opened the door carefully because he knew the big dog would be lying there at that time of day.  Boomer stopped snoring,  raised his head and thumped his tail, twice, as Isaiah stepped over him. No sense whacking him with the door.  The porch was still cool from the daily scrubbing.  But that would be about it regarding movement as far as Boomer was concerned, except maybe to eat and so forth and find a cooler place to snooze.  He was a big old mastiff acquired to herding cattle, but he was lazy, so now he was a pet. Papa said he was on guard duty, and as proof no Sumerians had ever invaded.   Mama would not have him inside.  Boomer  occupied most of the stoop while the sun was not too hot.   Now he watched Isaiah lazily on this scorching hot day, and Isaiah stuck to the shade as he made his way down the concrete path.  Later Boomer would find a shady spot or even wangle his way into the Warren somehow when Mama wasn't looking, which would be about it for him and exercise. Now, back to snoring. And drooling.\par
Isaiah wondered what Sumerians looked like today.  There were pictures in his English book. They had beards and spears and fought lions.  Maybe they were all off fighting lions, which was why they had not invaded.  Isaiah was glad they had not invaded. "Sargon the Great". He didn't know anyone named Sargon.  Were Sauron and Sargon related? Probably not, he decided.  Sargon was just a story.  Mordor was still there, somewhere southeast, maybe east of Mississippi. He wasn't sure about those foreign parts. Someday he wanted to go see Kirith Ungol. And climb Mount Doom.\par
 Between the buildings it was still cooler than out in the sun, something that would change and the path would be too hot to walk on barefoot later in the day, when the sun pounded heat into it.  Isaiah looked up at the brightly colored praise flags, most with words embroidered, all with Biblical themes: Joy, Praise, Grace, Faith, or pictures: sheep, trumpets, a rainbow, or Hebrew or Greek words or phrases.  All were motionless in the hot sun, even above the roofs. No wind, not even up there. Whoever had made the one with the sheep had made it so that it looked like the sheep was running when there was wind, but today it was a droopy hot sheep.\par
Next to the Warren was Boom's.  Mr. Boom always had time to talk to Isaiah, though he had a press of work, as he said.  He had two trailers joined together, one to live in and one to work in.  It was allowed, so Isaiah opened the door and went into the work trailer.  He enjoyed it - it was mostly shelves, two feet deep, two feet of walking space, then four feet of shelves, then there was another narrow passage way, then two more feet of shelf across the twelve foot trailer, the shelves crammed floor to ceiling with all sorts of broken things in need of repair or that had something of interest.  He remembered this because it had been a math problem: how wide was the trailer? 2+2+4+2+2=12.  Or if he knew how wide the trailer was, and it was 14 feet wide, how wide was the second aisle?   There was a work area with benches and tools and neat things like that in the trailer.  There was Mr. Boom, with his two assistants. One was an older teenager who was his apprentice; the other had completed his training and now worked for Mr Boom.  Mr. Boom was tall and thin and had no hair, except for a moustache and eyebrows that seemed to go everywhere, all white.  The moustache fascinated Isaiah because it stuck straight out, like Mama's hairbrush glued to a human lip or something.\par
And there was the smell, a mixture of oil and metal.  Mysterious things had been heated and soldered.  Isaiah liked the sharp smell, so different from cooking or Mama or the dog.  Papa smelled that way, sometimes, depending on what he was doing that day. People were talking. There were three people, and two different arguments were going on at the same time.  It was like that around here a lot.  Isaiah was not allowed to solder.  The list of things Isaiah was not allowed to do was a lot longer than he would like, and it always seemed to be getting longer as he found out about new things.  There was "welding" which was a mystery he was not allowed anywhere near. \par
"We did things that way because it was right! People figured it out and then we didn't have to figure it out again!" this was Mr. Boom's voice, booming at his apprentice.  Isaiah used to think there was a connection.  But he had been ten Boom in Holland, and now he was just one Boom. Most Eppers dropped those funny little words like "van" and "ten" when they came to America. So he was Mr. Boom.\par
"But God speaks today."\par
"But the old ways don't always apply. Things change, Mr. Boom."  this was Josiah,  the non-apprentice.\par
"And how do you know He is speaking? Do you seek Him, or does He speak on His own initiative? I fear presumption here, deadly presumption. It is one thing to be open to the gifts, the other to be open to all supernatural phenomenae uncritically!"\par
"So we figure it out, again, like we did the first time. Don't just throw it out because it is old and you don't know why! New is not always better!"\par
"We must trust the Lord and allow Him to speak as He wishes."\par
"That's not what I'm saying. Not at all."  \par
"The canon is closed. Not one word is to be added to Scripture!"\par
"But there is prophecy not recorded, that is to be judged by Scripture!"\par
"How can it be revelation if it is less than Scripture? How can it be the Holy Spirit if He is supposedly speaking in a sub-par manner? It seems to me that is against His dignity!"\par
"Ah, Isaiah!" Mr. Boom got up from his workbench. He had a large heavy apron and googles with magnifying lens.  He took these and his gloves off, and bent down to see Isaiah eye to eye.  The two others turned back to their benches.\par
"Whatcha doing?"\par
"This toaster is in serious need of something.  I am not sure what.  It does not work.  With patience it will tell me its secrets, and then either it will have life again as a toaster, or we will turn it into a clock or something!"  Mr. Boom showed him the opened toaster. "The wires are fine, it seems, but it just burns toast.  The timer is not solid state, thank the Good Lord. There is nothing you can do with solid state.  I do not fix solid state. It cannot be fixed if it is solid state.  I do not have the patience for the circuit board.  People make these too complicated: who wants a programmable toaster he has to throw away? Who has time to program the toaster? Give me simple levers and we can make it run forever, but if it is solid state, it is a different matter entirely.  All we can do with those is put them up until we figure out what we can do with them. Now, Isaiah, is there a purpose to your visit? It is not to chase you off, that I ask, only it is that sometimes you are a messenger or something."\par
Isaiah liked the way Mr. Boom talked.  He was actually Dutch, although he had spoken English most of his life.  There was music in his voice, which Isaiah has pointed out once, and Mr. Boom laughed and said it was an accent.  He was from a small Epper village in the Netherlands, although he did not like to talk about it much.  Papa had told Isaiah not to ask, he would learn about it when he was older.  That was fine with Isaiah.\par
"Noo, it is just Mama is resting."\par
"And you are eight.  And, you are Isaiah Poller.  And it is hot outside.  Did I show you the geothermal well?"\par
This was one of the things Isaiah really liked about Mr. Boom.  He was always doing neat things, and then showing them to Isaiah.\par
"What is a geo- geothermal well?"\par
"Ah, what does your Greek tell you about the word 'geothermal?'\par
"I don't know a word geotha."\par
"No, no.  Geo:  from ge, earth,  thermal: from thermos, heat. Earth-heat.  We can pump water down into holes and it comes back hotter or colder than water at the surface. Hotter in the winter, cooler in the summer.  It is always the same temperature down there.  Look at this." And Mr. Boom took him outside, through his back door, where there was only one step down to the gravel. Although he was old, Mr. Boom jumped down spryly. Isaiah followed him, both of them avoiding the one step.  There was a round cover with some pipes sticking out of it, and a motor. A softly-humming pump. "I am trying to see if we can heat and cool our homes with geothermal energy in a way that would make sense. You see these wires? Someone else is monitoring it. You know how cool it is in my trailers? Well, it is being heated - now, cooled - by geothermal energy.  If it works we will use it throughout the Ranch. Feel it."\par
Isaiah touched the cover where he was told to.  It was cool. He compared it to the ground. It was actually cooler on the cover.  Mr. Boom carefully replaced the cover. Mr. Boom stepped back up into the trailer and Isaiah followed. Neither used the step.  Mr. Boom  smiled. "That can be your word for the day. "Geo-thermal."\par
Isaiah already had ten Greek words for the day, to memorize and use until he was comfortable with them.  But he politely gave thanks.\par
"Now, I am afraid we have a lot of work going on.  And this evening we are going to do some aluminum casting, if you would like to come and watch. Check with your parents, first, and we have to get ready for that. I wish I had more time for you today."\par
  \par
Old Silas was slowly sweeping with the big floor broom - the one Isaiah got to use when he was there. He was past lifting anything heavy. He dressed like he always did, in a suit. He often said he was ready to be buried and that would save someone the trouble of changing his clothes.  He was looking forward to the afterlife, but there was nothing morbid about it - he had a twinkle in his eye and was happy at the idea of seeing God face to face,  and hearing His Voice, and the relief from bodily weariness and pain and weakness.   If he got a chance, he would lecture you for a long time on whatever came to mind, particularly on seeking first the Kingdom of God.   Silas was interesting to listen to.  He'd fought in a war, traveled around the country as a hobo, lived homeless on the street, lived in a rescue mission, worked as an unskilled laborer, and had wound up on the Ranch.  He had arrived when the place started up, just another bum looking for a handout, but one who slowly found himself willing to work.  He had seen it all, allowed it to percolate for years, and with the wisdom of the Good Book, was ready and willing to dispense his hard-won wisdom.  He was prepared to die, even though at ninety-five he still woke up at four am and worked until ten pm, six days a week.  He had given everything he had away and slept in the small room he kept in an old dilapidated trailer, one of the first that had arrived when they had had to deal with six thousand people descending on the place, a trailer that had seen heavy use and abuse.   He drank water and ate two pieces of bread and an apple every day. He admired the cenobites (Isaiah loved that word, cenobite, it sounded neat) of old, although those guiding him had ruled out a hair shirt and chains years ago when he had suggested it.  He was waiting to go see Jesus. He was ready and willing and had made his peace with the world and everyone in it, holding nothing against anyone and not causing anyone any grief of note.  He would wake in the morning and sigh, and then say, "thank you, Lord, for another day. You know what you are doing, keeping me here. You must have your reasons." And then, off he would go about the day's work.  He was not of this world, and his thoughts were mostly of the other.  Silas was interesting to listen to, but sometimes Isaiah did not understand what he was talking about, and sometimes he was scary, sometimes funny. And you never knew what he would say.  He would tell you he was mostly on the other side, just a step away.\par
There was a trailer being stripped, already partly down to the steel frame.  Two men with masks were stripping out the insulation from what had been the kitchen wall.\par
Matt was one of the two men.  Although he was a teenager, he counted as a man. Isaiah was eight, so he was almost a teenager, so he was also counted as a man, although no one seemed to see it that way. Isaiah climbed up the side and sat on the steel next to Matt, not using the ladder.  It was a point of pride with Isaiah to not use ladders. Matt was up on a step ladder inside the trailer and was cutting out insulation. He had a mask and goggles on and gloves and heavy overalls on. This impressed Isaiah immensely.  Matt was not that much older than Isaiah, but capable of doing a man's work. At eight Isaiah was practically a teenager, at least in his own eyes, and so Matt and he were just about equal.  Isaiah liked to remind himself of that fact. Matt, fifteen, would have argued with this. But now Matt looked like a real grown-up. He had gotten his height and his shoulders were beginning to widen and strengthen.  Next year, Isaiah told himself, he would look like that. Papa was big, so it was possible.  Maybe he would be taller than Matt next year. And stronger. \par
\cf0 Micah was talking about Julie, a girl who had left the Ranch the day before.  Both Micah and Matt had liked her, although she was in her twenties.  She had told an elder to go stuff it with their backwards ways, she was through here, and she had packed up and left. \par
"What's pat-ri-arch-i-al-op-pres-sion?" Isaiah asked, pronouncing the new word carefully.  Matt looked blank. \par
"Sorry, Isaiah. Watch the knife. I don't have anything for you right now. Silas is sweeping the place to make sure no insulation wanders off. We are doing light work today because of the heat."\par
After a minute Matt asked him, "What do you want?"\par
"I don't know.  I'm looking for Papa."  It was always interesting to shadow Papa. "What do YOU want?" \par
"Oh. Girls. Gold. Glory." Matt grinned under his mask. Isaiah could see the smile around his eyes.  There had been a recent sermon about those three particular dangers in the life of a man.\par
"Julie's gone, Matt." Micah chimed in.\par
"Girls? Yech. And Gold? Not interested. And glory? That is God's alone." Isaiah replied.\par
"Wait until you're older."\par
Silas was drawn by this. "Not a thing to be joked about, Matt and Isaiah. Such frivolity and levity.  Many have fallen to those three things. Many lives ruined. I have known good men who have fallen for those. Lives ruined. Marriages ruined. Prison. Pride. Despair." He moved off, muttering. "Do not be enamored of the things of this world. There are better things coming, far finer things, things that eye has not seen nor ear heard, prepared for the Lord's beloved. The day is coming.  Yes, the day is coming.  Come quickly, Lord Jesus. Here I am, Lord."   Silas suddenly turned around and raised his hand, palm outward, towards Matt.\par
"You're not after a theology of glory, I hope. But a theology of the CROSS?"   Sometimes Isaiah had no idea of what Silas was talking about.\par
"I never found those spiral stairs," Matt said. "I never looked.  God came down to us. We do not ascend to Him. Not by our efforts. Grace, man."\par
"Me, neither." Micah was usually silent, but apparently felt provoked.  Isaiah didn't know him very well.\par
"I should hope not.  That's why they cleared out the Mathom House." Silas was ready to roll. You could tell.  "It used to be people would go in those narrow aisles and find a staircase -sometimes - and strange things would happen."\par
"What sorts of things?"\par
"Things no human should see.  At least not on earth.  Some said it was the beatific vision. That got the concern of the elders.  The Word - mind you, the WORD, comes, and faith comes by hearing.  We walk by faith, not by SIGHT.  We don 't have some upper-story experience to see God.  And those people all claimed to see Him, they were all ALONE. We know God together, in community, not on some strange not-always-there mezzanine you reach by a spiral stair."\par
"The elders never condemned it."\par
"And none ever found the stairs, either.  That is something to consider, and to regard as a warning."\par
"In what way, then, Silas?" Isaiah had trouble understanding Silas sometimes.\par
"What are you afraid of, Silas?" Matthew wanted to know.\par
"I am not afraid. But I do not want the people of God led astray by visions and things that are not confirmed by the elders, either."\par
"The elders chose to neither confirm or condemn those experiences."\par
"Something to think about," Silas muttered, "Just something to think about. That is what I am saying." And he moved off, muttering and sweeping.  \par
Then he was back. "Absolute certainty? Seeing the face of God? Those are not things for now. We walk by faith, not by sight.  Demanding total proof and demanding that we KNOW with absolute certainty is idolatry. Idolatry, my friend. We walk by faith.  The ear hears whatever is there, the eye commands what it sees and chooses.  Our faith is a faith of HEARING not SIGHT."  Silas was not satisfied that he had made his point, and the whish-shwish of his broom resumed.\par
Matt and Isaiah looked at each other. \par
"Where's my papa?"\par
"Sorry, I don't know.  And you need to stay away from insulation, pardner. This stuff is bad news if you breathe it in. I am afraid I will have to ask you to leave.  You don't want it on you, either."\par
"Awww."  Isaiah climbed down and stood about ten feet away, close to the wide open door. He WAS leaving. \par
"How come the fan's not on?" It was a big old box fan, taller than Isaiah.  Like a lot of other things, it had been made from recycled trailer parts, although the craftsmanship was better than store bought. Ranch-made was well-made, carefully crafted, strong and pleasing to the eye with a spare beauty.\par
"We don't want this stuff blowing around. Now, go."\par
Isaiah looked around for a moment. No Papa.  Not in the workbench bay, either, where they fixed equipment and built stuff.  No one was in there presently, and it was silent. Silas was still agitated. It was best if he was left alone right now. \par
Matt saw him looking around.\par
"Maybe done at the other end, working on the new greenhouse? Anyway he's got the bucket truck down there. I saw it there.  Maybe he'll let you up in it again."\par
"Thanks, Matt."\par
"Not a problem, pardner. See you later."  Even with the goggles on, Matt's face said he was serious about Isaiah needing to leave.\par
The new greenhouse was a long way away - Isaiah was currently at the east end of the long row of buildings.  The Warren, where he lived, was just about at this end of Second Row.  This was First Row, Building A.  The new greenhouse was First Row, Building AK.  It was close to the pond and there would never be a First Row Building AL, because of that pond. But it would be a long hot walk and maybe Papa was elsewhere.  Papa worked everywhere, in all the settlements, not just in Hair Bare. He was the General Superintendent of the Grounds.  He liked to say it meant he was generally intent on coffee.  He said it with a straight face because some frowned on a lack of seriousness. It was only recently that Isaiah had come to understand that the whole Ranch was not made out of coffee grounds that Papa was the boss of.  But Papa was not the boss, either, which was something Isaiah did not understand.  He thought Papa should be in charge of everything.\par
Isaiah stepped outside the hanger so Matt would know he had really left, and wondered where to go.\par
All was quiet.  The only sound was the tearing of insulation and the whisking of the broom. From time to time Silas' voice rose above a mutter: Isaiah clearly heard him say "Wise men still seek Him. Hear Him.  Hear, O Israel...In the beginning was the Word...God spoke and there was light.."  Bruno, a big Dobermann, lifted his head slightly and thumped his tail twice. Isaiah scratched him behind the ears and Bruno licked him.  Bruno was lying on his side in the shade outside the Hanger.  There was a little overhang, so it got shade in the morning. And because there was shade, there were dogs: Becky, Wolf and Howler, three German shepherds, and Bobo, a second Dobermann.  They were all just lying around. \par
Isaiah looked across the rock parking lot to where Melanos was.  Melanos was a huge bull kept in his own  three-acre paddock with a specially strong fence of three rails.  There was the  loading chute and the little vet building, but no one was around.  Beyond them was the corral and the headchute.  Sometimes something interesting happened around there, so Isaiah sat in the shade with his back against the hanger wall at the corner, and waited, scratching behind the ears of whatever dog thought was being insistent, sometimes three at once.  He picked up some pieces of gravel and tried to juggle them, then tossed them up and caught them, first one at a time and then he tried groups. He could hear Melanos slurping from his water trough over the panting of these dogs.  The ever-present wind was still, and it was quiet. No one was around.  Beyond the paddock was just empty ground. It was part of the Ranch, but it would never be developed, because they wanted space between the Ranch and the town of Nicholls, over there to the east, just over the horizon.\par
 The dogs picked up their ears as one, for a second and then it was back to resting. \par
Then Gary walked down from the north and passed Isaiah, his footsteps loud on the gravel as he walked.  Gary was a stock handler, so Isaiah knew something would soon happen. Gary dressed like a real cowboy, with a cowboy hat and a neckerchief and gloves and cowboy boots. He even walked like a cowboy should walk.  Isaiah liked Gary.  When Isaiah was little, a couple of years ago, Gary had given him a cowboy hat that he had worn everywhere. Now he was more grown up and his younger brother Jeremiah had the hat.  Gary climbed up on the chute and then down to the far end of the loading chute and looked at the gate there, making sure nothing had come loose, making sure it was ready, checking everything.  That got Isaiah up and going, because he knew what it meant. Isaiah moseyed over as best he could, imitating Gary.  Maybe someday he, Isaiah, would be a stock handler.  He climbed the short ladder, which he had been told was ok, and looked up at the cross bars, which he had been told to get off of the time he had climbed up there.  Would Gary let him go down the chute? Only one way to find out.  Beyond the chute the enormous shape of Melanos suddenly passed with sharp-sounding steps, and in the narrow passage his snorting echoed, a deep humph that sounded like a locomotive. At least like what Papa sounded like when he imitated a locomotive.  Papa had taken him to see the trains and they didn't sound much like this. There was a train that ran real fast along the west edge of the Ranch, not stopping all the way from somewhere up in Cass County to some point far south.  Papa had told him to never, ever, ever, go anywhere near the tracks or climb the railroad trestles or walk the railroad bridges.  You could get killed.  They were miles away, anyway, and there were more interesting and less dangerous things to do.  He, Isaiah, had promised to follow the letter and spirit of that order, so he could not go looking for loopholes.  So now Melanos sounded like Papa sounding like a train. There. Isaiah had that settled. \par
The sides of the chute shook as Melanos brushed by.  Isaiah's eyes grew wide and he backed out and jumped down and stood on the ground.\par
"Nothing to fear, pardner," Gary told Isaiah, "Melanos barely touched it. This chute is enough to keep him in there."\par
Melanos had been brought here as a half-dead-or-more newborn calf and nursed back to life. He had a lineage, Isaiah had been told, meaning a great family.  He was a championship Angus bull.   He was a high-priced stud. That, Papa had told him, is the finest bull you will ever see in your life.  Because he had been bottle-raised, he was not afraid of people, and so no human went near him.  He was shepherded by a pack of large dogs that had been trained to direct him.  The loading chute was the only way into the paddock for Melanos.  People could go in under the fence just about everywhere, and so could the dogs.  Although he was docile, you could not trust him.  He was huge, close to a ton, if not more, but he had not been weighed in some time.  That was a lot for a bull. Visiting stockmen, when they first saw him, gave a low whistle and stared.  \par
"You don't fool with a bull that size. Any bull," Isaiah told Gary.\par
"You got that right, pardner." Gary smiled.  He had told Isaiah that many times. "You don't fool with a bull."\par
Melanos snorted at the gate, wondering what Gary was doing. Often the gate brought good things after Gary came.\par
"Does Melanos think he's a dog?"\par
"Well, some say so.  He doesn't like it when the dogs tear out under the fence and leave him alone.  I think he misses the dogs when they leave.  Mostly he lazes the day away under those trees,   down at the other end of the paddock. "\par
"You mean the Osage Orange and the black locust?"\par
"Very good.  I guess you have been studying trees."\par
"Yeah, but I hope that didn't sound like I'm showing off."\par
"Many a time you'll see him and his pack of dogs sleeping down there."\par
"Papa calls it 'fraternizing with the enemy'."\par
"Yeah. He would."\par
 "Sometimes Boomer goes in there, too.  Has Melanos ever hurt a dog?"\par
"Oh, no.  If Melanos DID hurt someone, even a dog, that would be the end of Melanos."\par
Now Melanos snorted and pawed the dirt, just on the other side of the gate.  Isaiah's eyes grew wide.\par
"Anybody ever ride Melanos in a rodeo?" he asked Gary.\par
"Nope.  You don't fool with a bull that big.  And they like bulls with horns, not a polled bull."\par
"Oh," Isaiah thought.  What a shame. \par
"Go on back to the shade, Isaiah, it's not ready yet, now git," Gary told him.  And he did, moving out of the chute.  Gary checked the outer end of the chute, went down and shook the other end firmly, once more, just to make sure, and walked back out.  There was a loud thumping sound as Melanos made sure it was ok from his side.\par
From beyond the entrance road beside the paddock came the sound of a truck on the gravel road, a truck with a trailer. Melanos turned and ran to the corner nearest the sound.  The truck appeared in a few minutes, far away on the entrance road. Melanos bawled at the trailer.  An answering bawling came from inside. Across the way the dogs briefly glanced.  They had a keen sense of when to get up and challenge a vehicle.  This, they knew, was not worth it.  On a cooler day they might bark, but not today.  Bobo bothered with a little low growling before coming up to Isaiah and nudging his hand, which was not petting him.  Isaiah fixed that.\par
 The truck rumbled past the old entrance sign and screeched around, parallelled by the big serenading bull.\par
 Isaiah was told to go back over to the shade until the trailer was in position.  Now the trailer was being backed up to the chute. Gary gave the driver directions on backing up.  They spent a little while getting the trailer just so and then adjusting the ramp.  Isaiah thought they took a lot longer than necessary. So did the loudly protesting Melanos and the cow.  Then the ramp was adjusted.  Gary had called this his stereo system last time.\par
 The cow in the trailer was cooing at Melanos, who was pacing the fence and snorting, ready for action.  Melanos would investigate all visitors.  Any cow was welcome any time but no other bull would probably ever be tolerated for long, and they were unwilling to take a chance on it, so he had the place to himself.  He knew it was his.   Isaiah recalled he had been strictly warned about never trying to get in there. No worries there: he was afraid of the bull.  Most adults were terrified who had not been around him. Never fool with a bull.  Why, he wondered, did they call them bull frogs?  There were horned toads: were there horned frogs? Polled frogs?  His last name was Poller.  Did Pollers poll frogs?\par
Gary told Isaiah to move further back as the big cow trotted down the ramp.   Gary worked the mechanism that opened the chute on the other end, and she and Melanos looked at each other.  Gary thought about sending Isaiah back to the shade. Isaiah could tell that. But as long as he was actually not in the way, Gary would not do that.\par
"Mister, can I feed your cow a carrot?" Isaiah asked.  The driver laughed. "I don't think she is interested in eating right now, son. Isn't there somewhere you ought to be?"\par
The problem was that there really wasn't. \par
"No, sir. I have some time to kill.  Mama is taking a nap."\par
"I wish I had that kind of time.  Well, boy, you just stay back, ok? These animals are fast and strong. Big. They could kill you as soon as look at you.  And not notice."  Isaiah noticed the driver had a big handful of dog biscuits, and he kept glancing at the dogs with quick eye movements, never directly.  The dogs weren't paying attention. Usually they would come over and do some sniffing, but not today.\par
"What's he weigh, now?" this was to Gary.\par
"Dunno. We estimate a ton and a third or thereabouts. Two-thousand six hundred pounds."\par
"It's worth the trip just to see him. I'm out of Oklahoma. Peoria, Oklahoma." \par
"Sorry. Can't place it."\par
"It's in the northeast corner of the state, a far sight closer to Joplin than Tulsa. So how come you don't use AI?"\par
"We've talked about it.  Some moral scruples around here, I guess.  But it is expensive and you have to have trained people and equipment. And Melanos is -"\par
"Big."\par
"Yeah.  We don't go near him if we can help it. We don't want to give him the opportunity to foul up and get himself turned into hamburger."\par
"What about vet visits?"\par
"The dogs get him into a chute and the vet stays on the other side of steel.  That bull does not know how strong he is."\par
"We've got some longhorn we are careful around.  You just don't mess with come cattle."\par
"That's about the size of it."\par
You don't fool with a bull.  Isaiah said it to himself as he went back to the shade under the hanger on his own. He hoped he could feed Melanos a carrot through the fence or scratch his chin.  Sometimes he liked being scratched right under the fence.  Isaiah had been taught to never scratch him between the eyes or above, because that can get a bull butting. Isaiah sat down in the shade and immediately a dog's head was on his lap, expecting petting.  Ten minutes later the dogs shepherded the cow back into the chute, and off she went in her truck, mooing contentedly.  Gary winked at Isaiah as he walked off.  All was quiet again. \par
 Melanos went to lie down under his trees. His dogs happily went with him. His dogs.  His pack.  He even had some toys: a large beach ball he would push around with his head, and a branch he would carry around in his mouth like a dog with a stick. He was so funny when he did that.  This was another pack of big dogs.  There were bigs dogs all over the Ranch. There were cats in the barns, but they tended to stay high up in the hay. Sometimes you could see them moving between buildings, but they tended to stay out of sight.  Soon came his deep croaking snore. Bobo and the others lazily made their way over there, stopping to slurp loudly from Melanos' water trough.\par
"Roll over boy,roll over," Isaiah told Melanos softly from the distance.  But he wouldn't learn that trick.  And it was too far.  People said that to him and laughed.  Did Melanos really think he was a dog? What went through a bull's mind, anyway? That was a stumper.  \par
Isaiah got up and moseyed over, walking like Gary walked,  to the northeast pasture on the other side of the road to town.  Here Alexander, one of Melanos's sons, reigned supreme.  He was in the same service as his father, but was safer to be with.  He ran up to the fence, tail out, happy.  Isaiah scratched him under the chin and wished he had a carrot.. You never scratch a bull near the horns or on the forehead, he reminded himself, because that may provoke it to butt.  Without a carrot in sight, Alexander got tired of the scratching and wandered off.  Alexander also tolerated other bulls and was far more social than his father, but was not an animal to be fooled with.  Probably he knew he was a bull.\par
 Isaiah also wandered off.  North of Alexander's enclosure was a pasture where they kept the dairy cows. It went miles and miles north, all the way to the end of the Ranch at the County line,  and had some good tree-climbing not too far off.  He was allowed in here, had been for a year or so.  It made him feel grown-up to be allowed in this pasture. He slid through the fence and past the corral. He had been told not to walk the corral rails and they were no longer that exciting, anyway.  He headed for a black locust. He had figured out how to avoid the thorns - most of the time - and scrambled up it. Twenty feet. Thirty feet. Thirty five was as far as he was willing to go, and he looked out.  The leaves were all shriveled, so you could not tell which branches were dead.  Black locusts were hard to climb.  Isaiah liked a challenge, so he climbed all of them that he could find.  All of them in the areas he was allowed in, anyway.  For a second he looked at a scrape from a thorn on his left palm. No blood. None came.  \par
Not a cloud in the sky.  Melanos and his dogs, under his trees.  Then to the right, the hangers, usually called the Hanger, at the corner.  They'd all been used for various purposes over the years.  past the hangers, lLong  industrial-type buildings, mostly green houses, in the first row.  Here they grew herbs and flowers and did quite a business, he understood.  His home was at the east end of the second row, and then came the school, the community center, the chapel, the library, and some office-type buildings, all made of stone. Everything was sort of crammed together because they thought it made sense to be more efficient, and most of the buildings were interconnected, which made it nice in the winter or the summer or the rain. Then there were rows, or rather a scrambled confusing mess of trailers, now mostly empty. Across from them were  long rows of stone rowhouses, plopped carefully in to place.  He'd been told there used to be nothing but trailers here, but now there were only a few.  Cannibalized trailer parts were used to complete the houses. He liked that word, cannibalized.  Cannon ball cannibal can of balls cannibalize. Cannibalizing cannibal cannonballs. He tried to work it into a tongue twister he had heard but gave up. He liked tongue twisters. Things were good enough at the Ranch now that some houses had wooden trusses and shingle roofs instead of the stone roofs with curved roofs that took longer to build.  The new stone houses were built with thick walls so that they were cool in summer and warm in winter.  But they were silent on the outside.  You could hear trailer-people talking or playing music, but the stone houses were silent. Isaiah did not understand it. His papa said it had to do with dead air spaces and ground temperature and thick walls.  Whatever those were.  \par
Past the buildings was the Pond on the south side, which was the old quarry now full of water - or, if there had not been a drought, would be - and on the north side the new quarry, which someday would be a pond.  A stone chapel was on the top of the cliff above the pond.  People liked to take pictures of it because sometimes the pond reflected the sky perfectly and you caught the chapel, upside down, on the pond. You'd find wedding parties sometimes standing in front of the pond with the chapel up behind them, getting their pictures taken. \par
Isaiah was more interested in the quarry.   They quarried just enough to meet their needs.  It was now too far to the city to sell it, and there was better rock closer, anyway, so they just quarried as they needed. Years ago they used to sell it.  Some of it was good rock, Papa said.  They had cut a drainage ditch down into the rock to drain the pond.  It went to the east, towards town. He couldn't really see it from here very well.  The land was flat. Flat and stony, with weird little hills in places that had grass on top.  Isaiah stayed off of them because of the ants.  There were a couple of these mounds inside the settlement that had fences around them because of that.  One ant bite had been enough for him to know to stay off. You could see for miles, but there was nothing to see, mostly. East you could see Nicholls from here, with a few lines of trees along creeks, and cars moving on roads.  South: Snake Woods cut its line in the far distance, which he was never supposed to go near, ever.  He sighed. He looked west.  You could see Kansas from here, he had been told, but it didn't make much difference. North was a road that went to a little Epper settlement, smaller than the Ranch.  That was where Mama got her chickens.  The Ranch traded stone for chickens.  Stone, clothing, and vegetables went one way, and chickens and some other things came south.  Isaiah wasn't sure what else.  But Epper settlements traded, because of something called economies of scale. Mama said they had to sell a certain amount publicly just to pay their taxes. Something called an IRS settlement. \par
Then there were the water tower, the barns, a building where they kept cattle medicine up against its own little paddock, and a building open in front that held a tractor and a front loader. There were other buildings with equipment he could not identify. He knew they had had to trade for more hay than they grew this year, which was not good. He was not allowed on the ranching machinery.  This really was not his part of the Ranch and he didn't know these people as well.   There was the huge barn and its massive fences where they kept the aurochs, but he had been warned repeatedly not to go anywhere near there.  He'd seen them from a distance, and Papa had once taken him to see them.  They were even bigger than Melanos.  People had wanted to let them range on the Ranch, but the cost of the fencing would have been way too high, and they were concerned about hunters and trespassers getting hurt. So they lived in these large fenced pastures when they were not inside their building.  There was another fence to keep people out of the reach of their horns - some of them would come up to the fence and try to get you if they could.  They were mean and easily provoked.  \par
He looked over at the water tower.  It had a fence and a locked gate.  There were three strands of wire on top of the fence.  He wanted to try climbing the water tower.  Papa had never said anything about not doing so, but then he had never mentioned it, either.  Isaiah climbed down the tree and headed for it, just to look.  Across the way two men were working a hay truck and were also watching him.  Everyone knew he was a climber. It would not be wrong to try unless someone told him not to do it, then he would have to obey. Too obvious. He sighed and turned away.  He was not allowed inside the barns unless an adult was with him. He did not know why. It was just Rules.  He looked through the door at the hayloft. He turned away and kept going, sort of aimlessly, looking for climbing opportunities to be taken advantage of someday.  It was getting too hot to be in the sun, but not quite. He had gotten used to the heat by now.\par
The land was part prairie, part exposed rock, like someone had scraped off all the soil and piled it, and other people had come along, and the rain had come, and had leveled the piles out some, so prairie reclaimed some of it .  They had no kitchen garden, as they had the greenhouses for that, and there was not enough of a field to really plant anything. Besides, some of what they grew they could sell and buy what they could not grow.  It worked. All around them the land gradually turned to normal prairie.  For some reason they were in this dead-flat place.  Why? People shrugged and said it was God's leading.\par
With no breeze and too many flies, he climbed back down from the pile of hay bales he had climbed without thinking about it and went over to the playground. No one was there. It was just too hot.  He stood on the top of the jungle gym. No breeze.  None on top of the slide, or the moneky bars.  The metal was getting too hot to touch.  He wandered over to the pond, hoping to find his papa, and went where the old quarry ramp slowly sank into the water.  He sat on the edge of the ramp and stuck his feet in the water, which felt good.  Several fish came up to investigate, and he pulled his feet up after aminute in which he hoped they would bite his toes for the excitement and then a fear that they really would.  If he remembered correctly, toes do not grow back. \par
He looked at the barren shore, mostly low rock cliffs that dropped straight down into the water.  He was hoping they would build the beach soon, which was an upcoming project, and then he would be allowed to come here alone and swim while a lifeguard was on duty.  But not yet.  And the water level was really low.    He lay on his stomach and put his arms, one at a time, over the edge of the old ramp and down into the warm water and tried to attract fish. It didn't smell very good and he couldn't really see very far into the water. He saw a catfish and a carp and a blue gill. He knew carp were trouble.  You could not eat them and no one knew how they had gotten in there, but there they were.  \par
He got up.  There was a big slab of exposed limestone that he was always hoping to find a fossil on. Not this time either.  Almost everyone was inside, out of the heat.\par
He watched the ducks and the geese for a little while.  They weren't doing anything and he had been taught to leave them alone.  The chickens were quiet, too.  He wished they had pigs.  There were no pigs on the Ranch.  \par
There was the sound of the rock breaker from the new quarry, and the rock saws as they cut the rock into blocks.  They were loading the blocks onto a truck and then the trucks would go to the new buildings.  He had been told to stay away, and he did not find it all that exciting.  He had seen it before.  When he was little he had thought it was exciting. But not now.  Sometimes he had to take Jeremiah to go watch them work. Jeremiah was his little brother, and he could watch the equipment for hours, it seemed. Anyway, longer than Isaiah was interested.  Little kids were like that.  He looked north. Up there was the old windmill field, but all the windmills were gone, now.  He would have liked to climb one. And there was the big cattle shed up there, that was absolutely off limits.  So were the old farmhouse and barn areas, even though they had burned down - many people said had been burned by outsiders - a long time ago.\par
He wandered home.  He slipped in a door away from the sleeping children. Oma met him. She was an old-fashioned Epper and as far as Isaiah could tell, disapproved of most everything, especially sloth and levity. And pride and frivolity.  "Where has the love of God gone," she would ask,"that you focus on passing pleasures?" And she would always wink.  Now she lived with them. She was his mother's mother, or something like that, and sat in a wheelchair when she was up.  Mama got her up in the morning  - sometimes Lois did this, but she really wanted Mama to do this -and bathed her and put her to bed at night.  She helped around the house, some, especially with Mother needing help with her three boys and another on the way, but needed a lot of help herself. She would stir things that needed stirring and direct the kids doing dishes and setting the table.   She was still sharp mentally and was Isaiah's tutor in Greek and arithmetic. He had been afraid she would be a tyrant of a teacher, but she was very patient with him.  And despite herself, she would draw Greek letters as comic animals, so that an alpha might show up looking like a whale 'a in whale, for long alpha' or a beta like a bee.  'It's got a purpose,' she would say.  Under her severity there was always laughter and joy.  Isaiah looked forward to time with her.  She would also talk about her life in Maryland, and talk about things he had never seen, particularly eating crabs and other strange things that grew in the Chesapeake. She used to eat live oysters.   She had been a coast watcher in the war.  Someday he would have to go see Clinton, Maryland, where she had grown up on a farm. They had cornered some criminal there. And Upper Marlboro, where Grandmother had lived.  You could go to the mountains or the ocean, even in the same day, there, and there were wonderful museums in DC. and historic sites all around.  No use complaining. Gotta trust God for where He puts you. Complaining is frivolity. Patience is a virtue, a strengh.  And she told stories out of the Bible, and Aesop and Herodotus and ancient Rome. She was a good storyteller. On Thursday afternoon the living room would be packed and she would tell a story to a group of children.  Horatio at the bridge was a favorite. Then she would play a game of telling the same story, only changing a few things and seeing what they could catch that had changed.  \par
But it made the flat dullness of where the Ranch was even duller and more desolate.\par
He told Oma where he had gone. She was especially interested in the fish, but asked him lots of questions about details.  She was always like that, thinking you need to observe and remember better, and children need to be pushed to do both.  He was surprised to find he could remember the license plate numbers of both the truck and the trailer that had brought the cow, even though he had not looked.  In this way, he knew, Oma got out of the house and shared his adventure.  And so she quizzed him in a loving way, and he got more out of his trip than he had when he had actually gone on it. It was like he was doing it over again, and he remembered sights and sounds and smells and how things felt that he had not noticed when he was actually there. "You have a good memory,Isaiah," she would say,"use it to the glory of God! Not frivolity." That was Oma. She had her own smell when she hugged him. No one else in the world smelled like she did.\par
Sometimes she told him Epper stories.  Isaiah had never known his Opa, who had died before he was born, but Oma was always talking about him.  He remembered being with a bunch of Eppers in a displaced persons camp in Germany under Russian control: everyone had fled west when the Russians came, because they thought the Russians would kill and rape and murder and loot when they came.  Most everyone in the camp were Nazis, and they hated the Eppers, so Opa had gotten beaten up a lot.  The Eppers had protected people the Nazis wanted to kill, so the Nazis wanted to kill those people AND the Eppers.  Then they had been sponsored to come to America by an Epper settlement in Maryland.  That was where Oma and Opa had met.\par
"What happened to the Nazis who used to beat Opa up?"\par
"We are not sure, but that was what was the Soviet Zone.  it became East Germany. Our best guess is they were all taken into the Soviet labor camps.  It is likely they did not live very long. But God took care of the Eppers."\par
"Did all the Eppers escape?"\par
"No, but whether they lived or died, God took care of them."\par
"So some came to America, and some went to heaven?"\par
"That is exactly right. Come, now, here is a picture of Opa." She had lots of pictures of Opa and Opa's mother - his father had not made it to the displaced person's camp, and no one on earth knew what had happened to him.  "But God knows," Isaiah said, and Oma said, "That is exactly right.  Whether we live or die, we are the Lord's."\par
Opa and Oma had had ten children, and all of them had had at least seven children.  He was not the only Isaiah in the family! And on Papa's side, there were three other Isaiah Pollers, two of them right here on the Ranch.  He had met the others, who lived in places besides Hair Bare. One was a teenager and one was a baby.  The teenager thought he was a baby, which Isaiah did not appreciate. \par
}
 