{\rtf1\fbidis\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset177 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl ;\red155\green0\blue211;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\ltrpar\b\f0\fs22\lang1033  \cf1\b0\par
\cf0\ul At the Presbytery Offices\par
\par
\ulnone As was his habit, Aaron Muis took out a new manila folder and carefully labeled it 'Deem Futz', going back and forth three times due to the spelling.  Into the crisp new folder went a piece of lined paper with the date, June 16, 2016, at the top. He carefully wrote 'bishop assigned me candidate shepherding, this pastoral candidate to Nicholls Epper Church.'  He thought a moment, looked at his watch, and noted the time : 10:04 AM. \par
\par
"You'll be picking him up from the bus station. The candidate will be arriving by bus from Michigan. I realize it is short notice, but he should be there at 5:00 this afternoon. I apologize for the short notice."\par
\par
"The Greyhound station?"\par
\par
"Is there another? It's KC-Mo.  Not the one over in KC-K.""\par
\par
"I was thinking maybe Lee's Summit.  But maybe I'm thinking of Amtrak. Downtown KC-MO it is."   Hearing that, Aaron turned to the photograph, on top of the pile of papers: the administrator's checklist certifying the papers were in order, and in the proper order his application, resume, reccommendations, transcripts, etc.   He slid all these papers into the folder.\par
\par
Aaron frowned at the picture.  Was it blank?  No.  There was a face, but he could not get a focus on it.  The most unremarkable, unnoticable face he'd ever seen. It told him nothing, absolutely nothing except the candidate had a nose, two eyes, a mouth, ears.  Maybe. They were hard to get a fix on or even describe, beyond that difficulty. What  he could see was something that told him nothing.  He noted this on a new line of his lined piece of paper, and returned to the photograph, which again seemed to be blank for a moment until he figured out how to find the face.  If Aaron put his finger on the nose, then he could see it.  But he had to look twice.\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 Aaron had been told Deem was like that in person: forgettable, without impression. People walked into him without noticing him.  In one of the classes where attendence had been taken, a professor had stared at his seat in silence. "Ah, there you are," he had finally said. There was something about him that made him almost invisible, unnoticable.  The guy could walk into a bank and rob it, and no one would notice. No one would be able to describe this man with the super power of invisibility.\f1\par
Aaron then skimmed the resume, the letters concerning the subject, the transcript and other data that had been assembled, including the application, closed the manila folder and placed it before him on the mahogany desk, which was clear of everything except the interwoven fingers of the man opposite him. The only thing he had read carefully was the letter of recommendation from the man opposite him now, which was more faint praise than enthusiasm. "And you think he is the right fit for Nicholls. sir?" Aaron asked the bishop, who had been watching him this whole time.  The bishop had said he wanted to watch Aaron's face as he read through things, not have Aaron go off to his office, think it through and then report.  He wanted his initial reaction.  Reflection would come later. \par
"It may be more that Nicholls is the right fit for him.  I know this Deem Futz.  Never has anyone had more trouble, more grief, more anguish, yet remained alive and managed to finish seminary."\par
"Perhaps he invites trouble.  Why should he bring trouble to Nicholls?  Though if any place deserves it - excuse me.  He was the goat of his class. There has not been a goat in fifty years, and here he is."\par
"An unfortunate phrase, an antique phrase, one that I would not like to see used again. Let us say that he managed to pass all his courses with a minimal amount of margin?"\par
"Let us so say.  For lack of payment he was almost expelled three times."\par
"Yet the finances came through."\par
"Sometimes late. Past the limit. It was only the mercy of the seminary president himself that accepted the payments."\par
"But there it is.  Mercy.  The payment was made.  Some would prefer to have someone as a pastor who has been through what Deem has been through than someone who has never been touched by the fire.  And here he is, despite forty-six - count them - forty-six interviews, some of whom told him they would wait for next year rather than accepting him. Incredible.  And he has not given up."\par
"He was brought up on disciplinary charges. Conduct unbecoming a seminary student."\par
"And he was cleared.  I was on the board that cleared him on one of those occaisions.  It seemed to us he had been framed, almost supernaturally, if you will. Do recall I was in Michigan at the time, and I served on several of the review boards that allowed him to remain in seminary."\par
"He has watched every other student in his class placed, years behind his starting class, and he is the last one."\par
"Yet he perseveres."\par
"A rational man would say that God was calling him to do something else."\par

\pard\ltrpar\cf1\f0\lang1033 ----------------------\par
\par
\cf0 "I must say, Candidate Futz, that I admire your determination, your perseverance. Despite everything you have been through, it does not seem to have fazed you."\cf1\par
\par
\cf0 "Thank you, Deacon Muis.  I regard it as training - the same thing that made Naomi bitter made Ruth better.  And Naomi, as I am sure you know, turned her name meaning 'Pleasantness' to Mara, meaning bitter.  I see it as a choice.  Not that I have always made the right one, but I do try to keep that in mind.  And Romans 5. And 2 Peter 1. I try to hold those close to my heart."\par
\par
"Many say that, but few live it as I think you do."\par
\par
"God has not allowed me much choice, now, has He?"\par
\par
"You always had a choice.  And I understand you always made the right one."\par
\par
Deem said nothing.  The bishop smiled and nodded.  Aaron also had made the right choice, here, and had said the right thing.  If he had not been such a political animal he could have taken the words to heart, but instead he considered this conversation in terms of how it would advance his own position, and safeguard himself in case something went wrong with one of the other two men.  Aaron thought in terms of alliances, strategies and tactics, and how to advance his own interests.  \par
\par
The bishop sat there wondering if this conversation had gotten through to Aaron, or if his armor was simply too thick.  He now believed the warnings he had heard about having to watch Aaron Muis, and eventually something would have to be done.  But he had no one else to take Deem Futz to Nicholls, no one knew the town as well, and certainly no one wanted to tangle with that situation. How could a man say such things and sound so hollow?  \par
\cf1 ----------------------------------------------\par
\par
\f1\lang9  \cf0\ul\f0\lang1033 Drive to Nicholls\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 Aaron glanced over at the scrunched up, insignificant form of Deem Futz wadded up in the seat beside him. He considered again turning the car around and heading back north, it being madness to even take Deem to the interview. \cf2  \cf0 Aaron had to consider his own relationship with the Nicholls elders, and they would blame him for this.   The temptation was sharper with every exit, beginning with the Cass County line at 155th Street. It was stronger at 163rd Street and it was only with an effort that he did not take the Highway 58 exit.  He'd conquered it, though, by the time he got to the next exit: what would he tell the bishop, his boss, to whom he had promised whole-hearted obedience and loyalty.  His own reputation was on the line here.  He would have to work with the church in Nicholls long after this interview was over, if the church still existed, if the candidate somehow managed to pull that sinking church out of its dive.  And this candidate... But orders were orders, and he willingly obeyed the bishop in everything.  This probably was the biggest test he had ever had in that regard.  Nicholls, of all places, getting this candidate, of all candidates. It was a recipe for disaster. He had discussed that with the bishop.  And now here he was, ferrying said candidate to the interview with the Session, the elders of the Nicholls Church.  It would not be an interview as much as a firing squad, a chopping block, a meat grinder.  He himself would say nothing at the interview itself - that would be between the Session and the candidate.  His was to observe, and to report back to the bishop.  He already had that report partly written in his mind, and the bishop would agree that Deem Futz was the wrong candidate.\par
\par
Deem Futz was a case.  He usually said very little and Aaron liked people who talked. He could figure them out, but someone like this who was mostly silent required a lot of guesswork.  Deem had given him no clues as to what motivated him, even after knowing him for three weeks. Aaron survived by understanding people, by negotiating on that basis, by getting people to agree to things that at the start of the conversation they would have opposed.  The deceased bishop had approved of Aaron's abilities in that regard and Aaron had been the go-to guy when there was trouble needing shooting. He was a troubleshooter par excellance.  Now here was the Nicholls Church, trouble for sure, and here was this unknown.  What he saw and knew he really disliked and he did not think it would go anywhere good.  But this new bishop had known Deem back in Michigan.  What did that say about him?  Aaron's mind whirred, offsetting that against the powers that be in the churches of the presbytery, the other presbyteries, and the denomination as a whole.  How could he safeguard and improve his own position in this?  It looked bad now, but if he could rescue it somehow he could earn some clout with this new bishop.\par
\par
Also Deem was very underweight from starving alone in his apartment in Michigan - Aaron had fattened him up before the interview, which was now three weeks later than planned - and from Aaron's persepctive he seemed to almost have given up hope - the second fatal in Nicholls, the worst of all traits.    Aaron was again concerned about how forlorn, defeated and gut-punched Deem looked - likely they would never accept him. He reminded himself as to why he was taking Deem to the interview.  \par
\par
Aaron tried for conversation but this Deem Futz answered noncomittally and without interest.  Attempts at conversation simply died.  Successful pastors talked your ear off given the chance.  Another down mark, another indicator for disaster.  \par
\par
How eloquent Deem had been only yesterday! Aaron wished that Deem had been here instead of this lump.  Did you know that \i nephesh\i0  means both soul and desire in Hebrew?, Deem had asked. God has long experience in denying the desires of souls, even their deepest desires.  It's not enough to simply tell Him you want something, it is only in His will, with concern for what He is concerned with, that prayer will move Him. Aaron thought that if that Deem had been here, he would make pastor. Perhaps he was his own worst enemy? Why the funk?  Deem the inscrutable. Once again Aaron longed for this to be over. \cf2\par
\cf0\par
\par
Short. Skinny. Immemorable. Aaron forgot what the guy looked like every time he looked away, and he had to look at him twice every time to be sure he was really there. There was something about him that made the eye want to pass over him, as if anything else would be more interesting. This would be it, though.  Today Deem Futz would pass out of Aaron's life after getting the right boot of fellowship at this interview. He would go somewhere - Aaron really didn't care where, past the normal human concern for another human - and life would go back to normal.  The Nicholls church would probably wait for months for another candidate and then reject the next one, if they managed to last that long.  Aaron had requested someone else be assigned liaison to Nicholls, and the bishop had pointed out that Aaron knew them, and if Aaron was right, the church would close soon and he, Aaron, would have that problem solved.  Until then he needed to carry this cross. Thy will be done, Lord.  He, Aaron Muis, would carry out this mission as if it was his own, as if directly commanded from the Throne. That said Throne had heard enough, though, and wanted to hear no more from him on the point of him being reassigned.  "My grace is sufficient for thee." Aaron had spent time before that Throne meditating on 2 Corinthians 12:1-10 until he had surrendered all this to that Throne.  Nonetheless it kept returning, bubbling up at the actual sight of Deem Futz.  \par
\par
All Aaron's faith, all his inner resolution and promises to God and the bishop evaporated whenever he saw this unknown, insignificant person.  There was something about him that made Aaron simply want to slap him away. Insignificant.  Aaron had to remind himself that there were no little people, that no one was insignificant in the sight of God.  Deem seemed to prove that false very convincingly, and that insignificance was the one thing that stood out about him, like a superpower.  Deem had interviewed at a number of churches and settlements, but had been passed over, rejected, sometimes with an angry letter to Seminary Placement concerning the candidate, often viewed only as worthy of complete rejection by the elders, usually questioning why he had ever been admitted to seminary due to a profound lack of leadership skills.  He had no glitz or glam, no style, nothing memorable.   He spoke seldom and then softly and briefly. Some had written and wanted to know when he had come, and he had come.  They had forgotten he had. One settlement had asked him to come out of curiosity - could any candidate be this bad?  It was not a job offer, just a curious lark, a waste of their time, a folly.\par
\par
This bishop, this new bishop, as Aaron pointed out to himself, his new bishop, his new bishop to whom he reported and owed total loyalty to, now that Bishop Green was giving whatever answer to God he had - Aaron sometimes wondered how that went - this bishop had known Deem at the seminary, and Aaron had not figured out why the bishop, this  new bishop, etc., urged Nicholls to interview him. Or what there was to know.   Maybe the bottom candidate for the bottom church? Nicholls Epper had a reputation.  Long ago it had had the great Jake Profim as pastor before the CDP had ruled on him, and then the great Pastor Smit, but then there was Pastor Hartmann and his wreckage.  Deem Futz as pastor would be the cherry on top.  More accurately, the straw to break the camel's back. With Deem as pastor, it would last a month. With no pastor, maybe six unless the hierarchy stepped in and forced a shut down. Maybe Deem was the euthanasia they were prescribing.  Aaron hated uncertainty, hated speculating.  He could read Bishop Green, but not yet the new guy.  He would have to bluff if it came to it.  And bluffing was uncomfortably close to outright lying sometimes, a step Aaron had not taken.  But LaCygne last month.  Had he crossed the line?\par
\par
The town of Nicholls was never over 300 in population.  In 2016 it was down to around 250 with a disproportionate number of retired Marines with grown children no longer at home, and their wives. The courthouse, occupying a city block, is one story, wooden, unpretentious. The buildings and houses present a scattered, drab look, like they are trying to take up but are failing to fill Nicholl's sixteen blocks.  There iis a sense of looking to the past more than the future, that the glory days have parted.  They were in the 1920s, when there was a hotel and people were interested in digging for treasure west of the city. The grandiose plans were gone.  At one point they had talked about a Grand Boulevard wider than the widest street back east that they could find, but it had never been built, let alone decided on where it would go.  There were to be four grand, wide boulevards to rival Paris.  This would be Paris on the Plains.  Now more like Parris Island on the Plains, only Parris Island was bigger and more active, had a sense of purpose and more people.   Some cranky retired Marines and no industry did not compare. Why Nicholls was still a town was a wonder. But it simply refused to die. \par
\par
That church was down to less than two dozen staunch and bitter ex-Marines and their wives.  Grim, angry, reactionary, bitter after the fight over getting Hartmann out of there, that should have taken a lot less effort, far fewer words, far less fire and brimstone from that Session, and there was still something simmering between the Bishop and the Presbytery and Nicholls. Futz as the bishop's insult?  Aaron shook his head.  That would be nasty beneath his episcopacy.  But was it?  The bishop had not been there very long, after all.  Aaron did not know him that well.  The bishop was often opaque to Aaron, formal, remote, and did not feel he needed to explain himself, as indeed he did not, to Aaron, but at the same time he demanded utter honesty from Aaron, and Aaron felt like he was an open book to the bishop, who sometimes seemed to know him better than he himself did.   Nicholls needed a good, savvy pastor who could rescue a sinking church. But they were staunchly and determinedly Marines down there, or rather their own Marine culture that somehow was super-Marine.  They fed off each other.  Hartmann, the ex-Navy retired chaplain, had made it worse.  Now they could only continue, by mutual consent, if they had a pastor who had never been in the military.  But any good pastor, the sort of pastor they needed, would take one look at the place and run.  That left only the bottom dregs of the seminary as candidates, not the sort of people who could pull a rescue, but also not the sort of people they could accept or follow.  And Deem Futz had, by now, no other choices.  So here was the perfect storm of the worst church in the denomination matched up with the worst candidate.  Aaron figured the church would be gone by winter unless God did something miraculous. He didn't deny that might happen. \par
\par
The elders would be sitting, the same three on one side and the same three on the other, per the division.  Three had been elders when Smit had been pastor, three had become elders when recruited by Hartmann.  There had been conflicting letters sent by the elders, as at times the second group had corresponded in the name of all the elders wiithout informing the other three, sometimes reversing what all six had agreed to do. It had been ugly.  Elders Sand, Bread, Opp were the first three; Spinkster, Chips and Pfingster were the second.  Spinkster might not be there - Aaron's take on it was he was giving up here.  Sands.  Clerk of Session.  Bread, typically level-headed. Opp, a retired JAG officer and now serving as a judge.  Spinkster a former enlisted Marine, Chips as well, Pfingster now celebrated as the oldest living Marine in Nicholls.  The last three had fully supported Hartmann and wanted him back, or someone like him back, despite everything.  The first three had persuaded them to consider a non-Marine. Aaron suspected there had been several very angry and loud elders' meetings, if he knew them, and he did, at which they had hashed it out.  And knowing them, just because they said they agreed did not mean it would work out that way.  They might take out all their anger and frustration on this candidate.  At that point Aaron would pull him out and that would be the end of it.  Aaron really did not see acceptance. For that matter, he did not see a good outcome here. \par
\par
He remembered hearing of how, at graduation, Deem had been 'passed over'.  Traditionally the dean prayed a specially written prayer over each student.  Sometimes they were lengthy. The gentleman before Deem had gotten a prayer many on the faculty had contributed to, long and full of promise.  He got to Deem, did not even look at him and simply passed him to the next graduate. There was some sort of mix-up: his name was not called and there was no diploma.  They told him there was confusion that had never happened before and he could pick it up at the office next day.  However, the office was closed for the traditional two weeks after graduation. His file indicated he had not graduated, but the secretary commented that everything was there.  She gave the file to  her supervisor, who told Deem she would review it and apologized for the delay. She would look into it and get back to him.  Two weeks later she did - his diploma had been ordered but had come back incorrect and had to be redone. A month after that, there was a correct diploma, but issuance was on hold until his bill had been paid.  But it was paid, so they would have to talk to the bursar and get back to him.   They finally gave him the diploma and a statement that all bills were paid.  When he got home that day, there was a letter stating that his application to the seminary had been declined.  He took it into the Admissions office and they apologized for the error. None of Deem's family had come for graduation.\par
\par
Two weeks ago Aaron had asked Deem if that was true.  It was. And Aaron learned elsewhere, not directly from Deem, of the old man with the crazy look, a fellow with thick glasses and no hair, who came up to Deem afterwards and whispered "Congratulations," and made off.  He had left a piece of paper in Deem's hand that said \f2\rtlch\lang1037\'eb  \'e5\'cc\'f0\'c0\'fa\'c7\'fa\'cc\'c4\'e9\'ea\'c8 \'ec\'c8\'f2\'c8\'ed \'e4\'c7\'e6\'cc\'c6\'e4, \'ec\'c0\'e7\'e5\'c9\'ee\'c7\'fa \'f0\'c0\'e7\'c9\'f9\'d1\'c6\'fa \'e1\'cc\'c0\'f6\'e5\'cc\'f8\'c8\'e4, \'e5\'c0\'f0\'c4\'ec\'c0\'e7\'c2\'ee\'e5\'cc \'e0\'c5\'ec\'c6\'e9\'ea\'c8, \'e5\'c0\'ec\'c9\'e0-\'e9\'e5\'cc\'eb\'c0\'ec\'e5\'cc \'ec\'c8\'ea\'c0:  \'eb\'cc\'c4\'e9-\'e0\'c4\'fa\'cc\'c0\'ea\'c8 \'e0\'c2\'f0\'c4\'e9 \'ec\'c0\'e4\'e5\'c9\'f9\'d1\'c4\'e9\'f2\'c2\'ea\'c8 \'e5\'cc\'ec\'c0\'e4\'c7\'f6\'cc\'c4\'e9\'ec\'c6\'ea\'c8, \'f0\'c0\'e0\'cb\'ed-\'e9\'c0\'e4\'e5\'c8\'e4\f0\ltrch\lang1033 .  It was actually written in the old letters, in a form of Phoenician script, not the modern Assyrian or Hebrew cursive.  He had had to go to the library and translate it. It could be translated as, "And I will make thee unto this people a fortified brazen wall; and they shall fight against thee, but they shall not prevail against thee; for I am with thee to save thee and to deliver thee, saith the LORD." The next day, with a shock, Deem read the verse of the day in the Epper Epistle, Jeremiah 15:20.  That's amazing, Aaron had said. A friend of his had tried to track down the piece of paper without letting Deem know, but there had been no success.  Deem had gotten a piece of paper from a stranger, and had gone to the library. Was the rest a fabrication?  Aaron did not know.  The miles dragged by.\par
\par
Then his phone rang. Aaron got a telephone call from Deem's mother, who asked to speak to her son. She had been trying to call him, since he told her he was going to be in the KC area and his telephone had been disconnected months ago. Aaron heard it because Deem did not turn it from speaker phone. \par
\par
She told Deem he had been nothing but trouble lately. Why couldn't he settle down and act normal? A good son would be there when his parents grew old. \par
\par
"Woe to me, mother, that you have bourne me, a man of strife and contention," he told her.  She said it is because he has taken this seminary path.  They wanted him back home to watch cattle.  That is something he wa good at.  No good getting involved in the ways of pastors - next thing you know you will be on trial or something, and it is worse, far worse, than cattle ranching.  Give up on this whole thing, You are like the prodigal son. Your father will welcome you home with open arms."\par
\par
"You are saying I am prodigal here?"\par
\par
"Well, yes.  They told me you are meeting with a church. Nicholls. Son, that church has a terrible reputation. The town, I mean, and the church there, too.  Crazy ex-Marines. Everyone is armed.  Don't go there. Please. Your mother will worry about you. You may want to throw your life away in some crazy idea that you are called, but I don't see you as a pastor.  You barely made it through your studies and some of the things that happened embarrassed us.  Please, son.  We will pay for you to come back home.  We are praying for you, that you will come to your senses and come home."\par
\par
"I have to see this through, Mother."\par
\par
"I wish you would listen to your Mother."  She sighed. "I doubt they will take you, anyway. Promise you will come back home if they don't take you? And I know they won't. I just don't see it."\par
\par
Deem sighed. "Mother, I will certainly consider it. I really don't know if this will work out. "\par
\par
"And if, for some reason, God forbid, they want you, I think you should decline it. Will you promise you will decline it?"\par
\par
"No, Mother, I will not promise that.  I must do what God wants."\par
\par
"And God wants you to obey your parents. I see no reason to continue this discussion," she said, breaking into tears,  "we will pray for you. We had such hopes for you, and now - oh my son, don't do this to your father and me."  Aaron had to listen to Deem's mother cry over the phone as Deem kept trying to talk to her.  Finally she hung up. \par
\par
There was an awkward silence.  Aaron considered that Deem was more than some kind of stock tragic figure - he was a real human being, despite the temptation Aaron had to consider him as less than that.  He had human dignity, and knew sorrow.  Probably more than Aaron realized.  \par
\par
It was a shame about the Nicholls church.  It had had the famous Jake Profim as pastor, years ago, before he had been declared a heretic and exiled, taking half the church with him.  It had recovered and prospered amazingly under the great Pastor Smit, even building the largest Epper sanctuary in the world, so good was he.  Then they had insisted on a Navy chaplain like Smit, and they chose Hartmann.  Now they had lost the building, most of the congregation, and they were down to only a very few Marines holding their position. \par
\par
\lang9 Another thing Deem should know is Nicholls was also running low on water. And \lang1033 Nicholls peaked in the 1920s during the Great Treasure Hunt, when people tore up the Mueller property and left in frustration, yet others kept coming.  At one point Nicholls boasted a hotel. It's been converted to something else, or torn down. Aaron didn't even know where it had been. \par
\par
They passed into Nicholls County.\par
\par
"Is that it?" Deem asked, pointing to an exit.\par
\par
"No.  That says Kikker Industries.  But I don't see anything."  Flat, hot featureless prairie ran in all directions. Or was it prairie?  Aaron wasn't sure.  He had thought prairie included those long rolling hills, like up in Cass County.  Here it seemed that there was a flat nothingness.  He'd been told it was a trick of the eye, that there were actually the same sorts of hills here, but it just seemed completely featureless.  A few trees off in the distance followed a creekbed, now dry, the trees brown in leaf, the fields brown as well. \par
\par
"Never heard of it."\par
\par
"No. Me neither."\par
\par
"Isn't Nicholls where Jake Profim was pastor."\par
\par
"Before he was exiled."  Really, Deem should have done the background research necessary for asking intelligent questions, anticipating questions, and in general being able to demonstrate being competent, aware, on-top and in control of the situation. Mastery of himself was essential to leadership.  What had this guy ever learned? Aaron was not allowed to simply shove him out of the car.  \par
\par
"Didn't he have some land out here somewhere, where exiled Eppers used to go?"\par
\par
"He did - the whole west half of this county.  From what I've heard, though, there's nothing out there now but a few dilapildated trailers and a few old people pining for the good old days.  Anyway that is the story you'll hear in town.  And politically, as you should know, that is probably not a good thing to bring up - that this is the hometown of the premier Epper star, who got exiled for heresy. Jake Profim is not a name you should mention today.  Or anytime soon.  Sort of like going to Rome and talking up Martin Luther."  Aaron considered Deem a political naif, while his own skills had gotten him where he was. \par
\par
Deem said nothing.\par
\par
"What's that?" Deem was looking across the land towards Old 71, now parallelling the new highiway. A wrought-iron fence leapt between concrete posts along the highway before turning away and running into the distance.  The fence corralled large trees, manly oak, green even in the heat.  They in turn seemed to keep a a large, one would even say grandiose, house that more nearly resembled something you would expect to see in Europe in place.  The house struggled to look out but the trees would not have it.\par
\par
"That is where one of the elders lives, Dennis Opp.  The legend is that the house was built by someone in the great treasure hunt of the 1930s - the man came to town, built the house, shorted the constructon crews, fleeced the town and was in prison in Jefferson City for the rest of his life.  The place sat empty for years and was sold for a song to Elder Opp.  He's a judge here as well as being an elder, but I have never been inside.  Never had a need."\par
\par
A minute or so later they took the steep Nicholls ramp up to where Main Street crossed the highway.\par
\par
"You are now leaving reality, and entering a pseudo-Marine fantasy land," Aaron said on the exit ramp. He pasued. "I should not have said that. Please forget I said that. These people -"  He shook his head. He would not allow himself to hate them.  Professionally he could not.  He was called to love them, despite their impossibility, their determined arrogance and resilience to any outside idea, anything they considered non-Marine.  He'd met Marine vets in other places who shrugged their shoulders and said nothing when he had mentioned Nicholls.  "Founded by Marines," they would say.  But they would not criticize brother Marines to non-Marines.\par
\par
\strike "Okay."  Deem watched a motorbuggy, clearly the first he had ever seen, cross the road ahead of him. It was a wooden box on four giant wooden wheels, with a mast and boom for a sail, but the sail was furled. One man sat on the bench in front, and another hung on to the boom in the rear as it hummed along. An oddity found only in Nicholls County.\strike0\par
\par
"Nicholls: Home of the Bulldogs - All Marines are Welcome Here" the sign said, yellow block letters on a red background. It was in a sort of flower bed that was mulch and some dried out plants that maybe had been flowers in their glory days.  Sort of like Nicholls, Aaron thought to himself, under Pastor Smit, or further back, Jake Profim.  Curious that two such influential men had pastored the same church.  And it was amazing that this Deem Futz was candidating here. Times change. \par
\par
Aaron turned right.  "On your left is Station Park - you can see the foundation of the old railroad station, and you can see the fenced-off caboose that the railroad donated to the town. Now in 2016 the trains just blow through Nicholls without even slowing down, and even the Nicholls siding was removed long ago - I think not long after World War 2. There was a POW camp west of here during the war."\cf1  \cf0\par
\par
"Fenced off?"\par
\par
"It's unsafe to climb on, I guess.   That happened long before I ever heard of Nicholls."\par
\par
"How long ago was that?"\par
\par
"Five years. Pastor Smit was still pastor, and they were in their big new church."  A slide, swings and a picnic shelter complete the attractions at Station Park.   It was empty in the heat, and the brown grass was sparse. Behind the park was the \cf1 old \cf0 industrial section, industrial buildings that the railroad had supported before they tore  out the siding, mainly abandoned or converted and then abandoned, or struggling and about to be abandoned.  Aaron relayed this to Deem. \cf1  \cf0\par
\par
"Now the railroad doesn't even stop here."\par
\par
As if on cue the gates went down with flashing lights and clatter.  A freight train with two engines zipped through. They waited.  Box cars. Coal cars. Reefers.  A string of tankers like sausages. \par
\par
"People tell me that area is where Kikker Industries started. Apparently local boy makes big, but you saw nothing when you came down the highway.  They look back in time here - probably Kikker Industries failed long ago.  This town is dying, I think.  Probably the biggest source of revenue is Marine Corps retirement checks, but they will complain all day about federal largess and wasteful spending."\par
\par
"They see no contradiction?"\par
\par
"No, most of them paid in blood.  I see no contradiction, and neither should you. Nicholls was named after the founder of the Marine Corps - I forget his full name, but they all know it - and has always sent a large number of its youth off to the Corps. Many have not come back."\par
\par
"I see."\par
\par
"I don't know how many of them, but all the men of the high school classes of 1940 to 1944 died taking islands in the Pacific.  All of them.  That is still a wound in this town seventy years later. There are still gold stars in the windows of the houses where the boys lived, those in town anyway, and it's best you not bring it up."\par
\par
"So there is a big veterans' presence here?"\par
\par
"Immense. And Nicholls Epper is the only church.  The town is actually the same size as many of our settlements, but it is not a settlement.  It is a town with an Epper church, and many people will make that distinction, as they are not Eppers."\par
\par
 "I really don't know how they manage.  I mean, there is no industry here.  And those Marine retirement checks can't be everything.  Even if they squeeze every penny hard enough to make Lincoln cry."\par
\par
 They passed a block of brick stores, and then there was the hospital on the left - only three stories occupying part of a city block - and a row of commercial buiildings on the right.  Pickup trucks were parked at an angle along both sides in front of the businesses.  Four crew-cut men, their jeans matching and their shirtsleeves rolled identically, were marching in step unconciously, arms swinging the same, as they walked somewhere. Each had a holster on his right hip. They nodded in unison as they passed someone.\par
\par
"All trucks.  And everyone seems fit," Deem observed.\par
\par
"Yep."  Aaron considered his own slight paunch.  He was always self-conscious down here.  He was not a Marine, he did not measure up, and they always silently let him know that. In Pastor Smit's day it had been a warm and welcoming fellowship of people who truly loved each other and loved God more - things had gone downhill and now they had the bitter end. He impercitibly shook his head.\par
\par
"You have doubts about me," Deem said,"I know. I don't blame you."\par
\par
\cf1\par
\cf0\par
\par
Aaron was supposed to build the candidate up.  He felt worse. Deem knew, which surprised him.  The man had always seemed almost unaware of where he was or how people felt, despite how all the presbytery staff had latched on to him and were sad to see him go.  Glad to see him get an interview, but he would be missed.  Aaron had not understood that.  Or this. This sucked the last vestige of any kind of pleasure at all from this. There was a lot here that was not adding up, that was incalculable, that he could not control. The whole thing was approaching indecency.  These people in Nicholls always made him understand they considered him inferior.  What would they do to Deem?  The elders when Pastor Smit was here had been a great session.  But Pastor Hartmann had forced several resignations and brought a few on board that were, shall we say, less than ideal. And Pastor Hartmann had had no business interfering in the selection of the session.  It had been unethical, had been commented on, and the comments had been ignored. But Pastor Hartmann was gone. Thank. God. \par
\par
"Ahh - I should have turned back there to get to the church. I guess I'm still thinking about going to the new church.  Driving and talking at the same time. Nicholls only has sixteen blocks in a grid, so it isn't a great distance.   This town has no street signs and no stop signs. No speed limits.  They try to get their regulations to a miniumum, and the ones they enforce are quirky."\par
\par
"Like what?"\par
\par
"The theory is that armed people will be cordial to each other, so there is no need for stop signs.  Everyone knows where everything is, so there is no need for street signs.  But there is a need to always carry a loaded sidearm at all times.  Cops will stop you and make sure you have a round in the chamber if you are a Nicholls resident. As soon as we leave Main Street you can expect that we get pulled over.  But I am going to take you around to the courthouse, and you will see what I mean."\par
\par
"Here's Butler's: the coffee comes in two flavors: Battery Acid and Civillian.  Do not order the Battery Acid - although it's half the cost, it is way too strong,  burnt and bitter. They take a pride in it.   The food is good, though, and there is plenty of it.' \par
\par
 From behind the big window, from a booth on one side, a wild-looking man glared at Deem until they could see each other no more.  "That's Crazy Harry," Aaron said,"I was warned to stay away from him. Seeing him puts a chill on my heart." Deem nodded. "Nicholls is mainly retired Marines of a peculiar strain.  You could say their own culture.  Pastor Smit used to have a large ministry here to help people struggling with PTSD that drew people all the way here from Joplin to St. Joseph."\par
\par
"PTSD?"\par
\par
"Post traumatic stress disorder.  In this town, if you stay, you will hear that a lot. Most of the men are combat vets."\par
\par
"What happened?"\par
\par
"Pastor Hartmann.  He told them they were crybabies, to suck it up and get over it. He shut it down."\par
\par
"I see.  He was the last pastor here, right?"\par
\par
"Yes.  Doctor Underwood, a psychiatrist with twenty years experience treating PTSD in Marines, moved his whole practice here.  Pastor Hartmann drove him out of town."\par
\par
"Pastor Hartmann -"\par
\par
"Let's focus on today.  I like to move on from that. There is, however, a debris field here, like the bright and shiny new church building, now padlocked, that they had lost.  They were back in their first building.  But then there were not a lot of them left, fewer every Sunday. We need to think about what is next, not what is past."\par
\par
Deem took this in.  How much did he know about the last pastor? How much did he really know? Maybe he had heard everything.  Maybe he knew nothing.  And did it really matter?  Deem would have to put the church back together, if anything short of a direct divine intervention could do that, and listing all that had gone wrong would not be helpful.  And the whole thing was still a bitter memory to Aaron.  It still stung, there were still tensions between the elders and between himself and them, and between them and the presbytery, and between himself and the presbytery, and even between himself and the bishop over this.  He wanted to make it good as liaison, but maybe that meant shutting down the whole sorry church.  In five years Pastor Hartmann had taken a very healthy church and almost destroyed it.  And there had been very little that he himself, Aaron Muis, could have done about it. \par
\par
 Aaron silently drove.  Somewhere underneath, he was still seething. Despite counsel and prayer, he was still angry.  He pronounced forgiveness one more time on one and all and repeated his determination to see that God would bring good out of this horrible mess.  He might never know the how or when, but he simply had to trust God. \par
\par
Two blocks later they turned left.  Before they got to the end of a block the police car behind them lit up.  With no other traffic on the road and nowhere to turn off, Aaron simply stopped on the gravel.  It had been gravel since they had left Main. \par
\par
"Keep your hands in the open,"  Aaron told Deem.  This was Nicholls.  Just about anything could happen.\par
\par
Behind them the police officer seemed to do nothing for several minutes.  Then his door opened and large, shiny black boots met the pavement and slowly approached them, carrying the mountain above.  He was undefinably ex-Marine, still in shape, still buzz-cut under his DI hat, an avalanche of confident swagger and authority surging along the street.  Body armor, enormous holster on one hip, enormous billy-club-slash-flashlight on the other, his uniform crisp, his eyes hidden behind aviator glasses, smooth shaven, ball cap set low the way Marines wear fatigue covers.  If there were two cops like this in town, they could shave each other with their chins.  It was unlikely he was capable of smiling. There were three in-town cops, the last time Aaron knew, one detective, and one cop who roamed the county roads.  The three in-town cops looked like clones of each other.  \par
\par
"Good afternoon, sir" this one said to Aaron.  His head moved as behind the glasses his eyes roamed the interior of the car.\par
\par
"Good afternoon, officer," Aaron said. \par
\par
There was a silence.  Finally, "You're from out of town, right?"\par
\par
"Yes, sir."\par
\par
"Let me see your license, please."  The 'please' was tacked on to what otherwise was an order. \par
\par
With a frown he examine the front, then the back, then the front again, as if convinced it must somehow be a forgery. He even turned it sideways and looked at it that way, from all four edges.  They went through the same examination with regards to the insurance card.\par
\par
Behind the glasses the cop was expressionless, as if not knowing what to do with people from out of town. "May I ask what you are doing in Nicholls?" The tone indicated they could have no plausible, legal, ratonal, unquestionable reason for setting foot inside the city limits or driving their streets.  \par
\par
"I'm taking this candidate for the pastorate to his interview.  I am afraid we may be late."\par
\par
"Is he there already?"\par
\par
"I'm right here," Deem said.  The officer's head snapped back, as if seeing Deem for the first time.\par
\par
"They are expecting you.  I heard they are going for... a non-Marine.  That will be a first.  I expect you'll be leaving immediately after the interview?" He did not wait for an answer. "Welcome to Nicholls, sir. Well, good day."  He handed Aaron his license back, and they turned left on the next street.  The cop turned left behind them, fifty feet back.\par
\par
"This is Courthouse Square. That's the county courthouse."  There was an unimpressive one story limestone building, sitting in the lawn of a city block and dwarfed by acres of dried grass around it.  There were buildings on two sides of the square, and one on the south side.  No trees, of course, for a clear field of fire as someone had seriously told him once.  Those who were expecting a Japanese invasion at any minute were dying out.  There were low granite memorials to Marine actions in conflicts going back to the Revolutionary War that gave it the air of a cemetary.   South of the courthouse was vacant land that stretched to the horizon.  Only three sides of the courthouse square were built - someone had had grandiose dreams about the town that had never come to fruiition.   \par
\par
"You see the stone foundations everywhere? This town is old. Or for all I know concrete foundations are outlawed in Nicholls. Most of the buildings were built before 1900 anyway."\par
\par
"There are a lot of buildings from the 1700s back home."\par
\par
"West Virginia, right?"\par
\par
"Berkeley Springs area."\par
\par
"Sorry, I never heard of it.  But you were raised on a settlement?"\par
\par
"Yes.  Mountain Valley - we lived some miles south of the Springs.  Apples, cattle, chickens, wheat, other crops."\par
\par
This was personal information, more than Aaron wanted to get into right then.  He reminded himself that it was likely the interview starting in five minutes would be the end of things here and of knowing Deem Futz. He did not reply. \par
\par
A scruffy, homeless-looking man was walking along the street.  He glanced at the car, and without warning opened the back door, got in and shut the door.\par
\par
The strong odor of sweaty, unwashed man, mixed with that of urine and several other unpleasant odors that Aaron could not place, washed over them from the back seat. One was beer.  Gin. Bourbon.  A cheap wine. \par
\par
"Are you a pastor?"  His breath was bad, too. \par
\par
"No. Of all the -"\par
\par
"I seen your plates.  How come you got that sticker then?"\par
\par
"I am an official with the presbytery.  This car is church property."  Aaron was tense. The man had to leave.  Why was he here?  Aaron hated surprises. This situation was already out of control. \par
\par
"I need to see a pastor.  Name's Whiggins, if that helps."\par
\par
"Sir, it does not.  Please get out of the car. Now."\par
\par
"Not til you tell me where I can find a pastor. I ain't going anywhere."  It would probably take two weeks to fumigate the car.  And delouse it. \par
\par
"We are on our way to an important meeting. We both want you to leave."\par
\par
"Both? I thought you was alone."  He seemed to see Deem for the first time.\par
\par
"I don't think you should leave," Deem said softly.\par
\par
"What? Deem, this is unprecedented.  One does not pick up people who climb into your car."   \par
\par
"I think Jesus would."  Aaron was silent. Deem was contradicting him. Did he know his whole career was in Aaron's hands right now? His whole future.  It was if he didn't care.  \par
\par
"Whiggins, you are welcome.  Eppers have a long history of hospitality."  Deem glanced at Aaron; the best Aaron could do was to give him a warning glance.  This was, after all, part of the overall interview process: how did the candiidate interact with the community.  And this was a big, fat, solid, screaming F. It was a sure thing he and Deem would be returning shortly northwards, and Deem would be entirely in Aaron' power.  A reptilian sense of satisfaction and anticipation rose in Aaron. \par
\par
"You are Eppers? That Pastor Hartmann told me I was going to hell. Is he still around?"\par
\par
"No, he's not."\par
\par
"That's the smartest thing them Eppers ever did, then, getting rid of him."\par
\par
"I am not at liberty to discuss it with you."\par
\par
Deem turned,"I am here to interview for the position of pastor."\par
\par
"I think you will make one damn fine pastor."\par
\par
"Thank you."\par
\par
Aaron could not think of what to say.  After a minute he continued his tour to Deem, as if the hobo was not there.  "I think the place was founded by Marines after the Civil War.  They expected thousands.  Not that many were interested. I heard - I haven't verified it, but I heard -  Nicholls County records state that Marine vets founded Nicholls in the late 1860s.  I put it that way because some say the town was pre-Civil War but there is no proof.  The weirdest thing about this town are the rumors of buried treasure passed from lip to lip: a persistant rumor was that the Marines settled the town to hunt for the treasure on the Mueller property, as Nicholls County has nothing, really, to offer anyone except poor pasturage. It's supposed to be treasure from everyone from the Incas to Blackbeard to the civil war to war plunder from World War 2.  I have no idea why there are so many rumors about it. If you are here any length of time, you will hear plenty of those stories.  I, personally, do not believe any of them.  Probably made up by people to try to attract people to this place.  Well, that's the VFW Hall, and that's the shooting range."  \par
\par
"My mother is a whore. I don't know who my father is," Whiggins offered. "Thanks for pickiing me up.  I got nowhere to go except I gotta talk to a pastor.  There's no pastor in Nicholls right now."  \par
\par
"Deem, I will have to report your patronage of this individual to the bishop.  This demonstates a singular lack of good judgment."  He was close, very close, to simply driving out of Nicholls, ridding himself of the bum, and calling the session from Kansas City, explaining that the bishop had decided that Deem should withdraw.  No interview, and Deem would be gone.  He could have handled this that way with Bishop Green, but something told him it was risky now.  Too risky.  Safer to simply let Deem bomb the interview.  That way he, himself, was not at risk and the fault would be clear. Perhaps the new bishop would even admint Aaron had been right about thiis candidate, and his position strengthened. \par
\par
"That cop is following us."  Deem looked past Whiggins out the back window.  Whiggins offered his hand and they shook hands. "I'm driving," Aaron said.  This was simply not happening. It could not be happening.  Perhaps they had some bleach at the church that Deem could disinfect himself with. There would be a car wash he could vacuum the back seat out with on the return trip north.  He would make Deem, then crushed with defeat, do the work.  \par
\par
"I am obliged," Whiggins said,"I'd like it if you would let me be your personal assistant."\par
\par
"I would like that, too," Deem said, and smiled. Aaron made a note: Deem could smile. He had never smiled at Aaron.  Aaron pursed his lips.\par
\par
"Wholly inappropriate.  A personal assistant goes through selection, examination, training, and final evaluation and then is assigned to someone matching his skills. This is presumptuous and inappropriate, Mr. Whiggins - the candidate here is not the pastor and may not be here very much longer, not even past today. You both are making a huge, huge mistake. Take my word for it.  Deem, you had better tell him just to go. And regarding the cop - not a surprise.  Probably has nothing better to do. Well, there's the grocery on the left and a vacant block on your right.  Ahead is the church on your left and the old cemetery on your right. South of it is the new cemetery."\par
\par
"I haven't eaten in ever so long."  Whiggins held his hands to his stomach.  Aaron stopped the car. He pulled a five dollar bill out of his wallet and thrust it at Whiggins. "Here. There. The grocery. Food is there. Please, get yourself something to eat. And go somewhere and eat it. Please. No whiskey. No beer.  Never mind. I don't care what you do with it. Just go."  \par
\par
"Thank you kindly, sir," Whiggins said, and stepped out of the car.  A few of his flies did not leave with him, and now moved to the front seat.  Aaron waved his hand at the flies.  Whiggins smiled and waved back.  That was not the message he had intended to communicate. But he noted that Whiggins was armed, or at least had a holster like everyone in Nicholls.  What a horrible incident.  At least it was over. Nothing like that had ever happened to him before.  He had never even heard of that.  He would lock his car doors from now on. Always. Epper settlements were quiet, decent, respectable people full of well-mannered people.  Most towns were, also, at least the sections Aaron frequented. \par
\par
 "At this point you've seen almost the whole town. We'll enter on the west side, where the parking is; the main entrance is on the east side, facing the highway. Four blocks west is the new church, now padlocked by Nicholls Bank. I'll tell you the story later when there's time."\par
\par
"Pastor Hartmann?"\par
\par
"That will sum it up. Yes."\par
\par
The street in front of the church was paved.  "This is Old 71.  And the only gas station in town is the Gas 'N' Grub - it's on the north side, where you used to come into town.  It was built I think in 1922 and was never redecorated.  They sell more whiskey than gas or grub, and you probably don't want their grub.  Probably the grub was bought in 1922. Mainly canned goods.  And cash only - no credit cards, no debit cards.  They didn't want a gas station near the exit because they didn't want people coming to Nicholls. It,  like everything else in Nicholls, is locally owned and only takes cash. The owner is rude, or at least rude to people from out of town.  Once he showed me his shotgun he keeps behind the counter.  I got the feeling he hated the idea of selling gasoline to a non-Marine. I've gassed up there only twice.  He told me he hoped there would not be a third time unless I planned on moving here, and I didn't look like a Marine to him, so it would be best if I forget about coming there.  And he has a sign that says "I shoot drive-offs and I shoot to kill".  I think he means it.\par
\par
"Wow."\par
\par
"Bear in mind these elders you are meeting are all Nicholls ex-Marines.  They will tell you they are Marines and the phrase ex-Marine is ignorant.  Kitten Pfingster is the oldest living Marine in Nicholls, a world war two and Korea vet, and so Pastor Hartmann recruited him to be an elder. It would not surprise me if he asked you if you saw any Japanese on the drive down here. "\par
\par
"I see."\par
\par
"Tell him no. Nicholls is always a treat for me to visit."\par
\par
"I can tell."\par
 \par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 "This is the original 1868 church, as you can see from the cornerstone." He pointed, and there it was in prominent relief. "They meet back here now," Aaron explained. "Pastor Smit built a bigger church and tried to sell this one, but there were no takers. Pastor Smit was good. Then this church lost their building due to financial reasons - the bank took it - and they came back to their own old bulding." Deem said nothing. He looked ill.  Aaron hoped it was only nerves. \par

\pard\ltrpar\lang1033 The church was an old white clapboard church, so small it could have only a single aisle, the sort that are scattered across the American rural landscape: it could have been anywhere. It was brightly painted with new white paint, and had a peaked roof and sharp steeple that rose to where a cross shone in the sun, brightly polished as if hung between heaven and earth.  This side had stained glass windows on the top and a door on the bottom. "It's a trick of the eye, Deem. It looks dead flat around here but it's not.  The entrance around on the other side just has a couple of steps, but here you can walk out of the basement." \lang9  It breathed righteousness more than grace in a severe and austere way.  Nothing out of order was tolerated here. Nothing.\lang1033\par
 \par
"It looks dead flat."\par
\par
"There are a lot of things around here that will fool your eye."  Aaron wondered if he himself meant a lot more by that remark than he realized.  He would have to take some time later and examine why he had said it. \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\par

\pard\ltrpar Aaron gritted his teeth at the sound the wheels made as he started up again and turned onto the parking lot and carefully parked. He was tense, he noted.  He really wanted to get this over with and get out of Nicholls. All the gravel everywhere was something else he didn't like about Nicholls.  Gravel meant poverty, dust, ruts, potholes, but here it meant they were just too cheap to pave anything, to spend a penny beyond what was absolutely necessary. As they got out he noticed the gravel had been impeccably maintained, rolled solid without any holes or ruts.  \i  \i0 Aaron looked around at the five fullsized pickup trucks in the parking lot.  Each had a gun rack across the back of the cab. Variations on "MARINE" and the Eagle, Globe and Anchor were on every  truck. Five elders, five trucks.  Despite the water shortage, they were all newly washed.  He didn't want to know.\par
\lang1033\par
"You left the key in the ignition."\par
\par
"I know.  You do that in Nicholls."\par
\par
"Why?"\par
\par
Aaron shrugged. "God only knows.  City law. Some Marine thing. This is Nicholls.  I guess in case they need to move your car to let a tank through or use it as a barricade in a skirmish."\par
\par
"Don't cars get stolen?" Deem had a strange look, as if not sure if that was sarcasm. Aaron wasn't sure, either.  Sometimes he wasn't sure - he had to maintain a smooth, professional interior, but internally there were several of him, one of which was someone who hated Nicholls.  Another urged him to love these people.  He disliked being such a politician, as he called it, but it was also necessary.  Someone had to do the dirty work for the Lord, deal with the ugly parts, bad situations, fights, skirmishes and scandals that sometimes erupted.  And he alternately smoothed over situations, made problems disappear, calmed ruffled feathers, and resolved differences.  Usually he could maintain a cool, detached professional exterior.  Nicholls, however, got to him.  For one thing they didn't give a rip about a cool, detached professional exterior. He was something that he had no idea what they called it, but it was outside the camaraderie of the foxhole and the brotherhood of the Corps.  In a town where every male over the age of 22 was a member of the VFW he felt it sharply. \par
\par
"Not in Nicholls.  Not with everyone armed. I expect no car has ever been stolen. Trucks, either.  Few cars are here, as you perhaps noticed. And I learned a long time ago an automatic transmission is against the law.  They are all manual.  They passed a law for that, but not for street signs.  Welcome to Nicholls."\par
\par
Deem nodded.\par
 \par
\cf1\strike\par
So there are two "ideal societies" here, one founded on Marine principles, the other on Epper.  Do they conflict?  Not really. \par
\par
Aaron told Deem one version of the legend of the treasure, and how there is also supposed to be a diamond, some say in Snake Woods.  He told of Simon Brot's death. \par
\par
\par
\lang9 Deem reflected to Aaron on that sequence in the beginning of Romans 5, though he was weak and had been emotionally down, he did not run on physical strength or emotional energy. He still, inwardly, rejoiced.\lang1033\par
\cf0\strike0\par
\lang9  \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Aaron checked his watch. He was only five minutes late. Between the wrong turn, that Whiggins character, and the cop, he had lost ten minutes.  They went down the steps to the basement door and the building seemed to lean over Deem, imposing itself on him, crushing him. Who are you, little man? Go away.  The main door was  on the other side.  He could see the church sign but it was facing away from him. The oven-heat was hitting them in the sun and Deem was covered in sweat by the time he got to the door.  It was newly painted and completely free of cobwebs.  The whole town, Aaron reflected, was overly clean. No chipped paint anywhere. No trash on the ground. Obsessively, compulsively, neurotically clean.  Aaron felt like a slob anytime he came to Nicholls.  It was just so perfect. He was not sweating but Deem sure was, shaking a little, too. "The spirit is willing but the flesh is weak," Deem muttered with a twisted smile, a  curled lip.  He looked upset.\f1\par
\f0 Aaron knocked on the immaculate door, wondering if they would wipe the grease from his knuckles off later, maybe using a UV light or something.  He saw no grease, but they would.  These people unnerved him every time he came to this town. . After a silent minute, in which Aaron fought the urge to simply turn around and leave as fast as possible,  Deem pushed it open with the flat of his hand, seeming to stagger.   \f1\par
\f0\lang1033 Deem lost his stomach contents right in the open door, splattering vomit on the newly scrubbed threshhold and the lower part of the door and the concrete walls. He turned to Aaron, vomit dripping off his chin. "The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak." Aaron was tempted to tell him he'd heard that already.  He staggered forward into \lang9 the cool darkness, messily stepping through the puddle.  The darkness was refreshing \lang1033 and the dry heaves subsided in a minute. "What's that smell?" someone asked from the dark interror.  "You've been puking?" Deem nodded.  Aaron decided that pretty much ended this interview. Aaron shut the door. He\lang9  stood back and motioned for Deem to go forward. He would observe.\f1\par
 \f0\lang1033\par

\pard\ltrpar\ul The Interview\ulnone   \par
\par
The flurry of voices from the darkness continued. Hey - you better clean that up.  That ends this right now. Disgusting.  Can't hold his lunch.  What is the matter with him. Do we need to interview further. Wasted enough time here today.  \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 "You Futz?" a gruff voice sitting somewhere in the shadows cut through the protesting voices, silencing them.  They have been waiting, these elders, and he was late. All that was in those two stacatto words.  You should be somewhere ten minutes early, Aaron recalled with a shock, here.   By Nicholl's time he was fifteen minutes late.  They were of the mindset, he recalled, that there was a lotta work a man could do in fifteen. Ruder'n all get out to keep someone waiting, let alone the elders whom he was meeting for a pastoral interview. Not a good start. Not at all.\par
That, also, was in those two words.\par
They didn't bother getting up. The nearest frowned when Deem extended his hand to shake.\par

\pard\ltrpar\lang1033 "Coffee," someone said.  Deem looked down at his hand, as if surprised that a cup of coffee was now in it. Over the acrid smell of vomit Aaron could smell the slightly-burned bitter coffee that for some reason was loved in Nicholls. Here and there were grey ceramic mugs embalzoned with USMC in red, or the globe and anchor, or MARINE and one that said PROPERTY OF MCRD PARRIS ISLAND.  Not a single styrofoam cup in Nicholls.  Deem's cup, Aaron noticed, was a dainty, feminine-looking tea cup. That was uncalled for.  There was Kitten Pfingster, the oldest Marine in Nicholls, staring off with a faraway look.  He was more often on a Pacific Island in the early 1940s these days than he was in the present. His eyes seemed to be scanning the opposite wall for possible Jap soldiers hidden in the cracks. Kitten was always on the alert, always on watch.  You did not touch him without warning, because his assumption, always, was any touch was from an infiltrator in his foxhole.  And he was armed, not just with a revolver but a Ka-Bar knife sharpened to perfection, seven inches of death in a sheath.  No one was going to try to take those away, Aaron thought.  People in Nicholls were very respectful of each other. All these elders were armed, every chamber loaded in every sidearm, full clips, and safety on.  Aaron had heard it was illegal in Nicholls for a weapon in public to not be ready to be fired.  But then he didn't really know - he mainly saw Nicholls through these elders.  When he came down here he came and went as soon as possible and he wondered if they were all like this. \par
\par
These were elders, these five, all trim, all with biceps bigger than his own thigh, all with the short iron-grey beard Eppers called a \i barzel\i0 , a cross lingual pun, because Bart in German meant beard in English, and barzel was Hebrew for English \i iron\i0 .  Epper humor.  Green t-shirts of the same shade on this hot day, their fatigue hats - covers, they called them, laid exactly in the same way for each of them in the exact same place on the table just ahead of their matching sun glasse, to the right of lined pads of paper with matching pen laid across it at the same angle, and papers that looked like the information they had sent on Deem in a neat pile, resume on top, at the same distance as if they had measured it off with a tape measure.  Maybe they had.  Aaron could not see them, but he was sure their boots were shined and tied in the exact same way.  Their hair was all buzzed off, leaving a little silver glint in the light where they still had hair, those who had it.\par
\par
Aaron noted that elders Sand, Bread and Opp were on one side, in the normal order. On the other side sat elders Sand and Chips.  3-2 towards change today.  Spinkster was a no-show, or would be late.  That might, he realized, prolong things here today. \par
\par
\lang9 "Yes, sir," Deem replied nervously.  Aaron noted that when he was nervous his voice went up. Aaron was suddenly struck at a gut level at the gulf between Deem and these Nicholls Marine elders.  They were aliens from different worlds making first contact, from  entirely different worlds, cultures, outlooks on life.  If you went to deepest darkest Borneo you would have to learn the language.  But learning theirs, even though he knew it was English, even though this was an Epper church and you'd think there was sufficient common ground, might be far harder.  The men stared at Deem's new suit, he stared at their short hair and their short beards, their overalls, their calloused, meaty, powerful hands, their eyes.  Some of those eyes said they had seen things they never, ever talked about, memories that they stuffed deep inside. Kitten in particular had been in combat in World War 2 and Korea, but the others were younger and shook their heads if you asked them.  Probably Korea.  Maybe Viet Nam.  Those hard eyes were not friendly in their examination of Deem Futz. It seemed to Aaron that they regarded Deem as they would someone who washed out of Boot Camp the first day, or worse.  Deem stood there patiently, not moving, simply waiting for questions.  Frowns were exchanged among them. They were solid, hardworking, strong, established people, all at least ten years older, if not twenty, than Deem. The normal age for an Epper to become an elder was sixy, but that was not always observed.  These were older, even though each looked like they could break Deem in half with one hand, even the ones who looked like they had passed the eighty year mark. And like they really didn't care whether they could break him.  He was irrelevant, except there he was being a nuisance. Somewhere in the silence, away in the dark depths of the church, was a tiny sound, either a clock ticking or an insect or water dripping - Aaron was not sure which - that normally you would never hear.  Only in awful silence do you hear such things. For Deem's sake, Aaron curled his toes up inside his shoes.  The bishop could not possibly have grasped how irreconcilable the differences were.  He now pitied Deem and wished he had not brought him into this, not for Aaron's own sake, now, but for Deem.  Here Aaron noted his personal sympathy rising beyond his professional detachment.  They were going to murder him. He was ashamed of himself for having wished this would happen.  He did not know that he could stomach watching this - he knew these men well enough.  It was likely they would make Deem break down and cry.  For all he knew, he, Aaron, would also be made to cry. \lang1033\par
\par
They watched silently as Deem did not realize the end of his tie had gone into the coffee until suddenly and awkardly he removed it and wrung out his tie in front of them.  They said nothing. Aaron saw it and a cold feeling went up his spine as he watched.  His stomach was already knotted.   He wondered when his headache would start. Deem of course was worse off.  The sooner this was over the better. Sandy Sands continued long, smooth strokes.  He was sharpening his Ka-Bar.  A little can of oil was on a piece of paper on the table in front of him.  He was using Deem's resume to blot oil.  Aaron never had liked these guys. \par
\par
"The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak," Deem said for the third time.  It did not go over well.  Their spirits were not willing that he was there, and their flesh was not weak. The sense of hostility went up a notch.  There was a tremble in his voice and his coffee-hand was shaking.\par
\par
"You look like you are afraid, son," someone said in a deep grumble, almost kindly.\par
\par
"Terrified," Deem said,"You guys scare me."   That did not help at all. There were coughs and looks at each other. \par
\par
Deem found something to break the silence. "Mr. Muis told me you are ex-Marines.  My dad was in the army, just like you. So I understand soldiers." They curtly explained they were Marines, not ex-Marines, not soldiers, in the Corps, not the army.  "We got a winner here," someone said.  Aaron could not locate the source of that comment.\par
\cf1\lang9\par
\cf0 "Who is clerk of session now?" Aaron asked into the bleak silence.\par
\par
"Deacon Muis, you must know that.  You should also make sure your candidate arrives on time.  But we blame him, not you, for that.  I'm Sandy Sands. Clerk of Session.   Also over there are Kitten Pfingster,Chips, and over here, beside me are Nathan Bread and Dennis Opp, .  Mike Spinkster isn't here. We are down to this size because, well, the church isn't so big anymore.  It doesn't matter who's who because this interview is about over."  The others nodded, barely, at the mention of their names. \par
\lang1033\par
Besides the elders, in the back of the room an elderly woman was sitting quietly on a folding chair. When had she arrived?  Aaron was not sure. \par
\par
"Welcome," Sandy said.  But that was clearly only a formality.  Aaron felt his blood running cold.  His sharpening was more interesting than this candidate. Anyway that's where his eyes were. Aaron decided this was going to not take long.  He might be home by dinner time. \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 "Thank you," Deem replied.\par
"Let's skip any more preliminaries," someone said.  There were murmurs of agreement.\lang1033\par

\pard\ltrpar "That's Mabel, our prayer warrior," Sandy Sands said, jerking a thumb over his shoulder in her direction without turning.  He pronounced 'prayer warrior' with a slight sneer.  She waved slightly, but oddly - not at Deem but as if someone else was there.  But there were only Deem and himself and the five elders - no one in the direction she waved.  Aaron thought anyone called a prayer warrior must be slightly screwy in the head anyway, and the other elders gave a slight smirk - obviously they had had dealiings with this Mabel before.  Just a crank like you find in some churches. There was another chair back there, not far from her, as if they were expecting someone else. Maybe Mike Spinkster.\par
\par
"I want a leader who can inspire me," Chips was saying,"I want someone I can follow into combat."\par
\par
"I think you mean spiritual combat," Dennis Opp said, looking over at him with a slight smile.\par
\par
"Whatever.  And you, Mr. Deem Futz, or whatever your name is, and what kind of a name is that anyway, you don't inspire me.  I don't think there is anything you can say that would change that. Bottom line, mister, is the bottom line. Pastor Smit was a highly decorated enlisted Marine of unquestioned honor and respect who went to seminary and returned as a Navy chaplain.  He served the Corps and then this church. We went looking for someone like him and found Pastor Hartmann-"\par
\par
"Which is exactly why we are looking for a non-Marine."  This was Sandy. He was not at all happy about it.  This was beating a dead horse, and one he had taken no pleasure in while it was still alive.\par
\par
"One mistake."   There was some agreement,"The individual, not the process," Chips pointed out.\par
\par
"There are no Navy chaplains retiring and looking. No Protestants, anyway."\par
\par
"Well, we aren't going to take a priest," someone said.  There was a snort.\par
\par
"We are looking for someone who is wise. Someone who can really teach the law of GOD. Maybe someone with a philosophical background," here Chips nodded towards Dennis,"like I said, someone who is wise. Someone influential, who can turn this church and this town around. Someone respectable, out of one of the famous Epper families maybe, like Doort or Angelis or Paak. You're not quote Epper nobility, are you?"\par
\par
Deem shook his head.\par
\par
"Well, you don't look it, anyway.  We want someone strong, respectable. Someone we can be proud of as a pastor and boast about.  You understand?"\par
\par
\lang9  Deem mildly replied, "Well, there is 1 Corinthians 1" and it missed most of them. Elder Opp turned deep red.  Aaron suddenly found himself he now had a measure of respect for Deem.\lang1033\par
\par
"So, Deacon Aaron Muis, why did you bring this specimen before us?"  Chips looked at Deem with undisguised contempt, from the vomit on his shoes to his damp tie and strangely unnoticable face. "Gaw, man. Why?" His sour look set on Aaron.  At least he was not sharpening a knife at the moment.  \par
\par
"The bishop thinks he would be a good fit."\par
\par
"He's new, after all. Does not know Nicholls."\par
\par
"He knows you well enough."\par
\par
"This Deem Futz is an insult. Take him away.  Please.  Just take him away."   Chips  made a shooing motion with his fingers, brushing him away. \par
\par
Sandy looked up from his knife for a moment at Deem. "I think I will ask one question, and then we will have formally conducted our interview, and this charade can be over.  Now, how in the world can you lead this church?  Think carefully before you answer."  People were already starting to get up to leave. Sandy put away his oil can.  He crumbled the resume into a ball and tossed it perfectly into a trash can some ten feet away. \par
\par
"Well," Deem said, "I would rather be an object of mercy than competent but condemned."\par
\par
"What's that?" It caught them off guard. Dennis Opp nodded slowly, but said nothing. He was younger, somewhere in his fifties or sixties, a retired JAG officer.  He was respected among Eppers outside Nicholls, even serving as an advisor to the seminary, and had been a voice of reason at all times.  Perhaps he could talk to them. \par
\par
Deem repeated it. \par
\par
"I'm not sure what you are saying. Between merit and grace, we lean heavily towards merit. It's a Marine thing." someone told Deem. "You don't seem to measure up."\par
\par
"That is true.  If I pastor this church, it would be by the mercy of God and by His grace, not by my competence."\par
\par
"Your competence. There is nothing on your resume that says you have ever led anything.  No indication of competence anywhere, for any reason."\par
\par
"Yes, I would be trusting God, not myself," Deem said calmly. \par
\par
"Sounds like you have an underdeveloped sense of personal responsibility.  One day with a DI would straighten that out."\par
\par
"He would never make it into the Corps."\par
\par
"No.  Not Marine material."\par
\par
"Definitely not."  \par
\par
Dennis Opp  had a careful, thoughtful look about him now. "Mr. Futz, please repeat what you said."\par
\par
"I said I would rather be an object of mercy than competent but condemned."\par
\par
"Thank you.I can live with it.  Is that original?"\par
\par
"I don't know if it is original. You see -"\par
\par
"I don't want to waste any more time here," Kitten said abruptly. "What happened to Garrison?"  Garrison was an interim pastor, specializing in troubled churches and settlements.  \par
\par
"He's no longer interested."  Aaron told them,"I think he has heard too much about you, bluntly."\par
\par
"Well, we are blunt. People talk.  Sometimes -"\par
\par
"I would like to follow up with this candidate one on one," Denns Opp interrupted Kitten, one of the few who could, "I have some time tomorrow morning.  Would you be available?"\par
\par
Deem nodded. \par
\par
"Let's just get this over with." Several other voices cross-talked, expressing the same thing.  Sandy held up his hand.  "Dennis has the right to do so," he said.   \par
\ul\lang9\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone There was another awkward silence.  Aaron hoped it would end soon, and he could go off somewhere and be miserable.  What could he possibly say to Deem.  Or to the bishop?  This was even worse than he had imagined. They were prolonging this.  He hd hoped for a mercy killing.  Now he would be at this for another day.\par
"Well, we have two other candidates to look at. You'll be preaching Sunday. By the way, with all respect, people are on time in this town. Best to remember that. With all due respect. By coming this late you answered our biggest question. All. Due. Respect. Sir." Sandy gave Deem a half-mocking sloppy salute.  There was nothing halfway about it, Aaron decided a momemt later. \par

\pard\ltrpar With that they explained, there  was work waiting.  Ignoring Deem, they each carefully said their goodbyes to Aaron. "Make sure he cleans up that vomit."  They clumped up the front steps, pointedly looking at and then avoiding the superdisgustingly filthy civilian defiled basement entryway.  \par
\par
"You'll find cleaning supplies in a closet here - somewhere in the basement.  Where, I don't know.  But anyplace this clean has got to have at least one cleaning closet," Aaron told his candidate. "And they want it Marine-clean.  Like your grandmother could eat off of it.  Clean yourself up, too, and then explore the building. Maybe it would help you understand these people better. I'd like to speak to those guys before they leave." Aaron carefull stepped across the vomit and headed toward the parking lot.\par
\lang1033\par
\ul Aaron and the Elders\par
\par
\ulnone "Gentlemen," Aaron called.  All five looked annoyed. The parking lot was hot and they would rather be off it.  There was a combined look of 'Aaron and his pointless, stupid discussions, arrogant ways and we don't like manipulative big-city trash anyway' in that look, if Aaron could read anyone.\par
\par
"We were going to call the bishop and then he would talk to you," Sandy said.\par
\par
"If you have a problem with me, take it up with me."\par
\par
"Fair enough.  I suppose you're going to tell us don't blame you, the bishop put you up to this?"  They were now in a circle, arms crossed, facing him.  Kitten seemed to be  checking the roofs for snipers, but the other four were glaring at him.\par
\par
"The bishop did ask me to bring this candidate here,yes."\par
\par
"And what do you think of him, personally?"\par
              \par
"That is not a valid question - you know that."\par
\par
\line "Well you have an opinion." "You're not that hard to read."\par
\par
\lang9 "He called us \i soldiers\i0 . You should have prepped him. We are Marines. That is enough to sink him right there." The others nodded.\par
\par
"You people wanted another retired Navy chaplain.  Well, they don't want to touch Nicholls."\par
\par
"Why not?"\par
\par
"That should be obvious."  Aaron could tell from their faces it wasn't. "Obvious," he repeated.\par
\par
"Where's Mike? Anyone hear from him?"\par
\par
"I'm trying to get ahold of Spinkster.  I know what he said about Deem from his resume. I figure he just gave up on this church - he wasn't there Sunday, either. He hasn't made church or any of our meetings in over a month now."\par
\par
"After one-fifty years here you can't just give up on this church. A lot of history."\par
\par
"Many people have."  It was painfully true. "Sad to lose Mikee Spinkster. He was a pillar here."\par
\par
"Yep. Despite all the fireworks between him and Hartmann."\par
\par
"Mike turned out to be right."  There were murmurs of agreement and nods.  Sore subject. Everyone wanted to move on.  \par
\par
"I don't coach candidates," Aaron stated, more defensive in tone than he liked,"Let me respond to that."\par
\par
"You didn't coach us.  Let us respond to that."\par
\par
"Not my job, and you know it, or should.  Gentlemen, my job was to see how you interact with the candidate, and vice versa.  Not to try and make things nice. I'm not going to play that game."\par
\par
Aaron saw Whiggins sitting in the back seat of the car.  Spread out around him was a loaf of bread, lettuce, slices of tomato, cheese, and mustard and a bag of apples.  There was a quart of milk on the gravel beside the open door. \par
\par
Deem was still inside the church.  "You -" he started, but the elders caught up to him in the ten feet Aaron had just moved.\par
\par
"Where we going now?" Whiggins asked.  But they ignored him.\par
\par
"This guy is a non-starter.  That is what we are going to tell you. Send him back to wherever he came from."\par
\par
"You talking about me?" Whiggins demanded.  He got up and joined the group.\par
\par
"No, we are not. You are not part of this discussion. Please go sit down."\par
\par
"I want to put my part in for the new guy."\par
\par
"You've known him five minutes or less.  A three block car ride and your are an expert."\par
\par
"Fifty dollars says you wind up with him as pastor. And you like it."\par
\par
"You don't have fifty dollars."\par
\par
Whiggins counted out change. "All right. Forty nine cents."  He was made to go back to the car and sit down.\par
\par
"I've got his back, now. You remember that."  He waved his finger at them.  They ignored him. \par
\par
"The bishop thinks he is a good choice here."\par
\par
"We don't."\par
\par
"What did you expect?  I remember you people saying you needed to get away from the Marine thing, that Hartmann had just made everything worse.  So here is a non-Marine candidate, and what do you do?"\par
\par
"We don't like him."\par
\par
"You don't like him. You don't like him.  You don't like him.  You didn't even really interview him.  There is enough bad blood between you and the presbytery right now that if I go up there and tell them what you did today, I don't know if you will ever get another candidate.  Certainly not a Marine. Maybe someone worse than Deem Futz."\par
\par
"Is that possible? I mean, than Deem Futz?"\par
\par
"You had Hartmann."  They looked at each other. "Tell you what.  Give him a few days. Get to know him. Like Elder Opp said, let him preach Sunday.  See what you think.  And if you don't like him then, fair enough.  But kicking him out after an interview like that is an insult, not only to him, but to the bishop, and so to the presbytery and to the church as a whole.  To God Himself.  And that is how the presbytery will see it. And you are supposed to be stewards of the house of God. I don't thnik you want that. Accountability on all levels.  You will have to answer for this, not just to me but to a lot of people."  Aaron wondered what in the world prompted him to say this.  He would much rather have shoved Deem in the trunk of his car and headed north. That way he would not have to look at him. Through him in his vomit-soaked, coffee-soaked self. Several years earlier Aaron had had to ferry a rejected young candidate from a settlement back to Kansas City, and he had whined the whole way. No surprise that he had been rejected.  The man had never gotten a pulpit, and was doing something somewhere.  Aaron had been told, but he could not recall.  Did Deem whine? Some were silent.  Aaron had seen all kinds.\par
\par
"No, we don't."  This was Dennis Opp, retired Marine Corps judge advocate, now serving as a county judge on a part-time, as needed basis.  "You are right.  We have not really scoped this candidate out. Tell you what, let's each talk to him separately, at length, and see what we think one on one.  Let him preach Sunday.  Now Kitten, I know that you have voiced the most opposition to him." Kitten nodded. "Let him stay at your house.  See what yiou think."  Kitten frowned, his face turning red with anger, but he mastered it and nodded. "We will each take turns interviewing him and get together Monday morning, after his sermon Sunday has a chance to settle and we have heard from a few people about it."\par
\par
"I don't want him at my house," Chips said softly. He got glances and shrugged.\par
\par
That sounded fair to everyone.  Dennis Opp had been an elder when Pastor Smit had been here.  He, Sandy Sands and Mike Spinkster had all been there and were still elders. Three of the five could be counted on to give a fair opinion.  Kitten would as always go his own way. Nathan Bread was the wild card.  He had come on the board with Hartmann here but also always went his own way.  He was an enigma to Aaron, who prided himself on his ability to read people.  Somewhere behind that expressionless face wheels were turning, and he would come out with an unexpected insight. He seldom spoke, except for the sometimes sharp mark of wit or insight.  He would give Deem a fair hearing.  That was four, then, of the five. Chips had been Hartmann's choice and had always thought Hartmann had done a fine job, even now.  He would have kept Hartmann on. \par
\par
"Is he the only candidate?" Kitten asked.  And here Aaron had thought the conversation over.\par
\par
"No. There are two others." Hadn't he mentioned this already? \par
\par
"How about if we meet the others and just say no to Deem."\par
\par
"We just went over that, didn't we?"\par
\par
"I say stick it to the bishop and send him back."\par
\par
"Kitten, no. We already went over why we can't do that."\par
\par
"I will tell you one thing that I think you have missed about this candidate," Aaron said, wondering why he was saying it, wondering why, suddenly, he was taking Deem's side when it was so easy to just walk away.  "\lang1033 Deem really has something that you should admire, endurance, and there is strength in his weakness.  That should give you  something to think about. He's overcome a lot to make it this far.  That is why the bishop backs him.  He has a lot of perseverance."\par
\par
"We are into endurance. Good point.  The gaps in his transcript aren't that he was dilatory."  This was Dennis Opp, considering both sides of everything carefully.  Dennis had been an elder when Pastor Smit was still alive, and knew his stuff, was respected nationally even.  He was on the seminary board, perhaps he even knew of some of Deem's travails better than Aaron did.  So why was he favoring Deem?  What was Aaron missing?  He wondered. Maybe there was more weight to what he had said than he realized and the judge saw it. Aaron found himself saying, "No, judge.  You can ask him about that.  He overcame things to make it through seminary.  A lot like the apostle Paul."  Come on, Aaron, he told himself. That's too much.\par
\par
"He's single.  Whoever heard of a single pastor? Is this some papist innovation?"\par
\par
"He had a girlfriend named Sarah.  When she found out he wanted to be a pastor, she dropped him.  He's been too busy since to get one. Or a wife."\par
\par
"If God wants him to have a wife, He will issue him one." This was Nathan Bread.\par
\par
"Thank you, Chesty Puller," Dennis Opp said.\par
\par
"Why doesn't the bishop come down here and explain to us why we should invite this guy to pastor us?"\par
\par
"He sent me."\par
\par
"So defend the guy."\par
\par
"Let me lay it out for you.  One. You guys really raised a stink about getting rid of Pastor Hartmann.  If there was a way to do it to irritate everyone, you found it. Now you want a golden pastor?  We will help you, but there are limits people are setting. Secondly, this is a town church but it is the size of a settlement, and the church itself is small and might fold.  You cannot support a full-time pastor, which means you get a subsidy.  People up in the presbytery are doubtful that is worthwhile.  Many people favor just letting this church fold.  Scatter the people.  Go elsewhere.  The bishop is not in favor of that.  He is in favor of getting the best pastor he can find.  He was in Michigan when Deem was in seminary - one of the first things he had to deal with when he came was the business with Hartmann, you will recall - and Deem made an impression on him as someone who would not give up.  That is a primary need here. Now, I would suggest you walk through the interview process, as stated.  You are not going to attract a better graduate pastor, nor an experienced pastor.  That is the bottom line.  The bishop found only three people willing to come here.  Of those, Deem is his top candidate.  You will like the other two even less.  So we are expecting you to reject all three because you are too picky.  You are regarded as uncooperative, among other things.  Simple to just make this Nicholls church go away.  It's a shame, but the bishop is rooting for you."\par
\par
"By insulting us with this candidate?"\par
\par
"By providing the best candidate he can find. You are not exactly the best-thought-of or most glamourous church in the world. I'd say, to be blunt, you are at the bottom."\par
\par
"You think he has what it takes to pull this church together again?"\par
\par
"No, but God does.  He may be the instrument the Lord has chosen."\par
\par
"There's humility for you."\par
\par
"They are still unhappy about us getting rid of Hartmann."\par
\par
"The church may close if we install this Deem fellow."\par
\par
"It may close anyway."\par
\par
"There is the Ranch."\par
\par
"Bunch of torn-up trailers with poor old people, that's all there is." Sandy looked up sharply at the speaker, walked out of the circle and came back a moment later.\par
"They passed their peak decades ago.  Probably worse than the trailer court.  Johnson probably bought 'em out and is doing God knows what out there.  If it weren't for Kikker the whole place would be deserted again.  No. The church over in Clinton or the one in Grandview. Nevada is too far.  We might as well close the doors if either of these other two candidates is no good."\par
\par
"It's a shame - the whole thing.  Probably Deem Fuzz is the best of the three.  That is a shame. It iused to be that we got good candidates.  That's before we ticked everybody off - the bishop AND the presbytery."\par
\par
"Let me look at that." Dennis gestured to the papers under Aaron's arm.  He'd gathered the resume and application copies the elders had left, including the wadded up one in the trash.\par
\par
"Deem has unusual initiative, enthusiasm, and endurance it says on this reference."\par
\par
"I didn't see that in the interview. What fool wrote that about him?"\par
\par
"He is now the bishop."\par
\par
"I fond  \lang9 all three singularly lacking in him from the interview."\par
\par
"That wasn't really an interview," Dennis said, and then, "Hey Chips, a word. Walk with me."  Dennis Opp had been some kind of high-ranking officer, and Chips had been a corporal or something.  They walked off together, with Dennis quietly talking . \par
\par
\cf1\lang1033\par
\par
\strike Kitten is the gung-hoingest Marine, Nathan is more thoughtful, Dennis a judge and retired Marine officer having served in the Marine justice system, Mike ??? Chips a farmer with theological bent, Sandy Sands ex-Ranch ex-Marine. \strike0\par
\par
\cf0\par
\ul Deem In The Church\ulnone\par
\par
Deem searched the church basement for the cleaning closet.  T\lang9 he basement doubled as a fellowship hall, where he was now, and currently had folding tables and folding chairs set up in neat, orderly, overly precise rows.  There were little marks on the floor where the table corners should go, he noted. It was likely surveying equipment had been used to get them exact, and the marks were identical in length and direction. Eppers tended to be excessively and obsessively concerned with detail, but this went beyond Deem's experience.  The mop closet, with the stenciled "MOP CLOSET Authorized Personnel Only" on the door in red,  held the water heater and furnace, and a sink with the coffee maker and supplies, but no mop or cleaning supplies.  The mop and bucket were in a corner of the smallrestroom, standing attention next to a rigorously ordered metal shelf with cleaning supplies laid out precisely, everything immaculately scrubbed and clean. There was a large locked closet that said "DECORATIONS" on its sign, and "DECORATING COMMITTEE ONLY" in stenciled letters. Upstairs was the sanctuary. No office. No nursery. But everything was scrubbed to an inch of its life.  \par
\par
The foyer was the width of the building, about ten feet or so wide.  It was completely bare.  One said held the door to the outside, the other to the sanctuary.  He debated with himself - would he really want to go into a sanctuary of a church that would never be his - like he was so close, but so far away.  It would be easier to stay out, to never know what it looked like, to go out the door and never look back.  He put his hand on the door knob and stopped.  He turned around and walked into the sanctuary instead.\par
\par
"Meet Every Challenge With Your All," read one banner. Another, "Be Strong and Very Courageous, for the Lord Your God is with You Wherever You Go - Josh 1:9" read another, and "Suffer Hardship with Me as a Good Marine of Christ Jesus 2 Tim 2:3".  There was that quiet sadness again.  "Greater Love Has No Man Than This,That He Lay His Life Down For His Friends John 15:13." \lang1033\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9 He had an eerie feeling of being quietly, patiently, lovingly watched.   Suddenly the walls were covered with pictures of young men in uniform, some in groups of twenty or so, some staring out, with the US flag in the background.  There were little labels on the pictures. "We finished our race. We gave our all. Will You?" he could read in the eyes of Edmund Spence, Cpl USMC, 1900-1918 KIA. There was a picture of a couple, smiling, in civilian clothing , against a tropical background, but instead of the US flag was a white flag with a blue cross on it. 'John and Angela Bourne, Missionaries 2015, KIA".  He remembered that incident as it had happened while he was at sem: they had been taken hostage on the mission field and killed. KIA, then, was 'Killed in Action'.   This church had paid in blood for its right to exist. This town was - well, he, Deem Futz was first of all unworthy to be here, but this answered something in him that this church, this town, was really alien to him, and there was no way he could ever measure up or even understand them.  There were other pictures of missionaries, other military pictures.  The walls were covered with them, all of them looking out, the missionaries with smiling, relaxed faces.  All of them had the dates completed.  All were KIA or MIA.  Not Momma Mia. Missing in Action?  He could hear soft, music playing.  But he was alone.  He drew his breath - behind these pictures were other pictures, of men and women from a bygone time, all looking at him, and behind them, another row, and then more, receding into the distance, into history.\par
Under the gaze of the pictures he stepped onto the platform.  He stood behind the pulpit and looked out. The great Jake Profim had preached here.  He had seen a picture of Jake preaching.  He had grasped the pulpit with both hands - Deem's fingers felt little worn grooves where decades of Epper preachers had grasped that pulpit as if at sea in a wild storm.  He let go and stepped back.  The grooves were barely visible, but they were there.  He felt himself completely, absolutely unworthy of the priviledge of preaching, let alone in such a place.  And Pastor Smit had preached here, another giant of the faith.  Hartmann had never preached here  - he came and went in the new building.  Deem looked at the little rows of pews. Enough of this.\par
\par
He sat down, three pews back from the front,, in the silent church, in the stillness.  In the remote past, he remembered, he had powerfully experienced the presence of God in a silent church. But now waves of feeling from his youth were rising, when he had read too much science fiction. The cold, hard, uncaring vacuum of space. The wheeling, uncaring stars. The cosmic emptiness. The lack of meaning of life.  Futility. All was vanity. What meaning could any of this have?  What purpose? What goal was there that was worth pursuing? What treasure besides a God who was silent and absent? As a deep pants for water so my heart yearns for Thee, O God, he prayed. Why would men replace heaven with a cold hardness of space, and exchange God who loved them for an apathetic cosmos that woud indifferently crush them? Why do people turn from Him Who will not turn from them? And yet, how far, how far off God could seem, so far away. God I know you care. How about a little in the feelings, in the perception, in my mundane reality?\par
"Blessed are those who do not see, and yet believe."  he heard himself saying.\par
Silence.  Outside even the crickets had given it up.  He looked up.  The pictures were gone.  He looked at every wall. No pictures.  It had been so real, so moving, so true.  The music was gone.  There was a deep, deep silence, a depth that ended so far down that it was beyond his perception, but he knew there was a power and a will there that held the universe together. Strange that he should think such things.  He was not prone to visions or hallucinations.  Perhaps he was still ill, or the stress of the interview was getting to him.  He breathed slowly in the silence, praying quietly. \par
The church door opened and there were footsteps.  Someone was entering the church. He really wanted to be alone just now.  Alone with his misery and the fact that God was silent and seemed to have abandoned him. He would get over it, someday. He fought some bitter feelings.  How could he argue that God had abandoned him?  Yet there was the hard cold fact of that interview, of there being absolutely no prospects.  This was the edge of the cliff. Past here he did not know what he would do.  This was the end of hope, and the only thing past here was an abyss of madness, hopelessness and despair.  Would he fall in? \par
The footsteps came closer .It did not sound like Aaron. He pretended not to hear them.  He became aware they had stopped at the end of the pew he was in. Someone was standing there. He turned and looked.\par
It was the  elder, the one with the longer hair and the shorter beard and the kind eyes, the one Mabel had waved to when he came in.  They were the kindest and gentlest eyes Deem had ever seen. He felt like he had known this man a long time, although he could not place him.  By bearing he was clearly an elder.  He could be nothing else. \par
"Mind if  I join you?"\par
Deem beckoned with his hand, not trusting his powers of speech, and turned to face forward. again.  The elder sat as if he had made a calculation as to how close he could sit to Deem that Deem would neither feel like his own personal space was being violated or that the elder was too far away.\par
Neither said anything.  But Deem could hear the elder breathing. It was a soothing, regular, sure thing, like it had begun before the foundation of the world and would go on afterward: confident, enduring.  An easy and a light breathing.  Nothing would every be too hard for it. Ever.  There was a strength in it.  The man would not leave and Deem did not really want him to. He found he was glad he was there.\par
It was an odd thing, this.  It was like this living, breathing, warm human being sitting within arm's reach, by his very presence, made all the thoughts of isolation and abandonment and the cold hard emptiness vanish, run away and hide.  There was meaning and purpose and a charity and a joy and a laughter behind the silence of the universe. It wa silent, he thought, because it was trying not to laugh.  Was he quoting Chesterton? Not sure. He had a hunger for God because God had made him hungry for God, because God intended to fulfill that hunger and not just frustrate him.  There was a purpose.  It was not chasing rainbows in search of a pot of gold at the end.  It was the rainbow as God's promise, and God was capable of fulfilling the promise, and would.  How dry he had been.  Now, not so dry. There was reason for hope, and so there was hope.  Whether he got this position or not, life would go on. God was still in control.  If he wanted Deem to have a suburban DC church, he would get one. Deem said to himself that God's plan was the best and such a church would just be rubbish if it was not what God wanted.  All things were behind him. Press on. \par
It was like he had had an enormous bundle tied to his back - his past - and he cut the ropes. It slid off into the past, or down into that abyss that had been open before him.  It tumbled down there, falling, growing smaller, away, away, away, down and down.  That was then. This was now.  There was a future, though he did not see it or know it.  He could go on.  He sat there, happier than he had been in a long time, for several minutes.\par
As they sat there, silent, Deem felt encouraged. He was not alone. He turned to say something to the elder about how he appreciated him being there.\par
He WAS alone.  How or when the man had left, Deem did not know. He must have either been concentrating or asleep.  Odd, that.  But he left behind a different way of looking at things, something that Deem could go on with. Now it was like he had long ago been at the end of a rope and had let go. Deem felt, oddly, like he had been caught. \par
Deem stayed some minutes, hoping the elder would return.  He did not.\par
He looked at the pictures looking at him. As he sat in the presence of God and this cloud of witnesses he felt himself hardening, rising to the challenge. Determination rose in him to do this, to not walk away defeated. How could he, after this?  He was no longer unable to win. He was only able to win. A strange thought, a strange feeling, a turning point. He knew things would be different.  Life had changed.  Not only "going on" but living.  He felt like he could breathe again, like joy was possible, like he could sing. Really, this little town and its church, its proud elders, were a speck of dust in God's sight, a drop in the bucket.  He, Deem Futz, was beloved of God.  God was in control. All things would work out.\par
Oh, the Deep Deep Love of Jesus.  Number 71 in the hymnal.  There was one in the pew-rack in front of him.  He opened it to Number 71, and a small piece of paper fell out and onto the floor.  It said "1 Sam 16:7 ".  He could not recall the verse, so he looked it up.  "What do you know," he said to himself, "What do you know."\par
Deem looked around the sanctuary one last time and left.  It was likely he would never return, but he would always remember this place.  And he was preaching Sunday, so he would be back.  To his surprise there was no lock on the front door.   \par

\pard\ltrpar\lang1033\par
\par
\ul Outside the Church\ulnone  \par
\cf2\f1\lang9\par
\cf0\f0 The old lady who had been at the back of the room was still there, sitting in the shade on the front porch.  Aaron wondered why waiting around for Deem was anything she should be doing in this heat. The door opened and there was Deem - the time in the church had been good for him, anyway, despite the interview, and he looked rested and relaxed.  He'd cleaned up the vomit anyway - Aaron had seen him working at it - and there were some wet spots still on his suit.  \par
\par
How would Deem interact with her?  She introduced herself as Mabel something - Aaron didn't catch it. They acted like they knew each other.  Odd. What did Deem want prayer for?  This should be good, Aaron thought.  \cf2\f1  \f0  \cf0 'God's will be done here,' he said, and she asked if there was anything particular for him, and he said that was for him, pointing to his heart. She nodded, they shook hands in a way that suggested she deeply respected him, and she left.  Crack pot. \par
\cf2\par
\cf0\lang1033  Deem interacts with a few people outside the church.  Aaron notices Deem \tab has a real ability to enter into someone else's emotional world and they feel it, \tab that he is on their side.  Unusually so.\par
\par
A man in a uniform that closely resembled Marine blues got out of a jeep and walked over to Deem. He handed him an envelope and waited while Deem opened it.\par
\par
In a beautifully clear script Deem read:\par
\par
" Pastoral Candidate Phutz, Mayor Southwark requests the pleasure of your presence in his office as soon as is reasonable today.  He would like to meet you.  Cordially, Administrative Assistant A. Tliel."\par
\par
"Tliel?" Deem asked.\par
"Pronounced Tuliel", the man in uniform said.\par
\par
"Amy Tliel, the mayor's administrative assistant and personal whore," Kitten said. Deem looked startled. The man in uniform said nothing.\par
\par
"I will be happy to come," Deem broke the silence.  \par
\par
Deem, Aaron and Kitten met the Mayor in his office.  Mayor Southwark was glad to meet him and hopes things will be smooth between the City and the new pastor, and they can work together on the identified biggest problems in town, such as homeless people drifting in from the trailer court and people not physically fit. Also people were violating the do not wash order on vehicles - here he looked at Kitten - and he wass sure there are other problems that the good pastor can address.  Kitten tells him to go to hell for no reason that Deem or Aaron can see. Where did Deem serve? The mayor was taken aback at the answer but recovered.  "I am sure you will be an improvement over Pastor Hartmann.  No cooperation out of that man." Kitten replied that Southwark had not deserved any cooperation.  The mayor had pressing duties, and it had been a pleasure, and they were shown the door.  \par
\par
"Baboon in Johnson's pay," muttered Kitten.  Deem looked at him curiously.  Aaron withheld comment, per protocol.  \par
\par
"Who is Johnson?" Deem asked.\par
\par
"He is that big swaggering banker up in Harrisonville.  He bankrolled the mayor's campaign and has bought a lot of prroperty around town.  He even bought Nicholls Bank."  Amy was watching this from her desk. "Tell you later," Kitten ended.  "If Johnson wasn't so stingy, he would get Southwark a higher grade than you," he told the girl.  She shrugged. \par
\par
"Listen, Deem, I need to make a phone call to the bishop.  I'll let you out here and you can explore the town.  I'm sorry, but that phone call must be private."  Deem understood, and understood what would be said.  "I'll pick you up in front of Butler's in an hour, okay?"  Deem nodded.\par
\par
Deem had a run in with Crazy Harry.  He met Nathan Bread in Butler's, who kept Crazy Harry from picking another fight.  Afterwards Deem wandered down to the courthouse square.  He looked at the Memorial to the War Dead, Classes of 1940-1945, reads the names, wonders who they were, what they would have been like if they had lived.  In another corner was a memorial to the Dead of the Great War, and then another for the Korean Conflict, and one for Viet Nam.  "James Pfingster" he read. Any relation to Kitten? The square was dominated by the Bank of Nicholls on one side, some law firms, a restaurant that looked a bit similar to Butler's - \i La Grenouille Engraiss\'e9e, \i0 but the awnings were finer and there was gold-looking trim.  Plus, the door framed a cross between a ma\'eetre d' and a special forces warrior - buzz cut, white towel over arm, white shirt and bow-tie, holster on his right hip and a sheath for a knife on the left, sheath sticking out of his highly polished right boot, huge muscles protruding from his rolled-up sleeves.  Law offices, a title office, a bail bond service, a barber shop and a few other offices completed the square around the limestone courthouse, two stories tall with  basement window peeking over the grass.  \par
\par
\ul Car ride to Pfingsters'\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\lang9 They drove northnpast the end of the brick-fronted buildings on Main, past a block of two-story mammoth frame houses, each fronted by small, stunted looking trees with shriveled leaves and carefully tended but dried grass - there was a no-watering order on -and turned right.  There was no sign, but this was Henderson.   After a few block  of these houses with wide porches all around and trees and each with a garden, and most with a US flag and a USMC flag proudly flying, the sound rose of an angry old man yelling at people. "Get off my lawn!" he was yelling, with various obscenities thrown in.  \par
"Who is that, do you know?"  Deem asked.\par
"That is Kitten Pfingster. You're staying there tonight."  Aaron smiled to himself.\par
"He's a good friend to any Marine," Whiggins said from the backseat.\par
"I'm not a Marine," Deem calmly replied.\par
"Oh," Whiggins said,"Oh."\par
The yelling got louder as they came closer to the house.  \par
Whiggins rubbed his hands together. "Anyway to get this off me?"\par
"What? The dirt?"\par
"No.  There is blood all over my hands."  Aaron breathed in sharply, but not so sharply that Whiggins could hear. \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\ul\lang1033\par
\ulnone Deem tells Aaron of the elder. Aaron wonders if Deem is losing it, on top of everything else.  Aaron cautions him that Kitten Pfingster wants a close look at him alone, and is the elder most opposed to Deem. Win him over, and he is in.  Otherwise, no.\par
\par
On the way to Pfingsters', where he would be staying - there were no hotels in Nicholls - \par
Deem tolf Aaron about the elder - one that Aaron did not see in the initial meeting, the one who later came into the sanctuary.  Aaron was concerned that Deem is hallucinating.  Aaron observes and hears about various people's reactions to Deem.  Aaron leaves with the bishop Sunday afternoon.  Deem moves from being a complete stranger to barely being tolerated. Not Marine material. Suffering is not central to the Christian walk, they tell him: victory over the enemy is. \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Aaron drove alone back to the bishop's residence.  "Deem really does have perseverance. I was not wrong about that." He thought about how he had arrived, half-starved and sick, three weeks earlier, and they had had to nurse Deem back to health. Somehow he had become best buddies with half the staff at the bishopiric, something that Aaron had missed until right now.  Deem had had every kind of illness and financial and legal trouble in seminary, including an arrest (it dragged on for two years, at the end of which Deem was cleared), suspension due to non-payment of tuition, academic suspension, both suspensions at the same time, a cursory investigation by the Committee on Doctrinal Purity, twenty interviews with churches and settlements that he got passed over on, and some had gone so badly the Placement Office had received angry letters about why Deem had been sent in the first place. But it was never character, always circumstances.  Deem had graduated the "goat" in his class - actually two classes later than normal due to his difficulties - and had had to repeat several courses.  He was no shining star. He had no spectacular gifts.  He was almost invisible in a crowd.\par
\par
Aaron recalled when he had met Deem at the bus station.  Aaron had stood there, looking for him with a sign, and he was startled when he heard his name mentioned. He looked around, and suddenly he realized Deem was standing right in front of him but he had not noticed he was there.  And this was going to be the leader the Marines here would follow?  And was he delusional on top of it?\par
\par
"God have mercy on him.  God have mercy on me in this situation.  God have mercy on the church in Nicholls." So he prayed all the way back to the bishopric, where he would make his report.  There would be none of the 'I told you so' he had thought he would be delivering.  So what would he say?  He gave that some thought and mixed it with prayer as he passed through Cass County back to the office in KC.\par
\par
 Deem was a 'man of sorrows and acquainted with grief'. How had Aaron not seen that?   Had God abandoned Deem? From what he had said, he regarded suffering as a gift, but it is, after all, suffering.  He was no masochist and did not regard God as a sadist. Life can be defined as how we respond to suffering - with an open, grateful heart or bitterness. He had chosen gratitude as the only response he saw open to the Christian.  Deem understood his significance was from God not man.  When that is all you have, you must see that.  God had stripped away everything non-essential from this man, including health, wealth, respect, leadership gifts, prominence, even height.  This Deem Futz was no shallow, fly-by night, health-and-wealth Christian.  He had gone into the depths and mysteries of God, and Aaron had missed that.  Likely the bishop had seen it.  In the depths of this man there was a deep connection with God that could be seen for those with eyes to see it.     \par
\par
Despite everything, Deem rejected the idea that God was hidden or silent, a sometimes flowing stream.  God is always there, always supporting, always trustworthy. Aaron was surprised that Deem was not an advocate of the Hidden God Who reveals Himself episodically, whether on Sinai, at the Jordan, Calvary, or the Second Coming. That was the official position of the denomination at present, that we wait for those great movements of God, outside of which God does not move, speak or act, although it was acceptable to veer off that position somewhat.  Deem maintained that God is always revealing Himself, for those who have eyes to see. For that reason he could not be a cessationist.  Aaron was surprised the CDP didn't go after him. Deem had replied that they didn't think he would go anywhere and he wasn't worth bothering with. He'd been told that, bluntly, by someone on the CDP. They had bigger, actual fish to fry.  He wasn't worth it. He'd shrugged.  He had consigned his life to God, and whatever happened, happened.  Aaron didn't think he had ever before seen such brokenness and surrender in anyone, and it was in an off-hand way.  You didn't notice it. Deem did not trumpet it or make sure you knew about it.  He would not tell you, would not bother telling you about it. You would have to listen and look for it, and like the man himself, you might overlook it. \par
\par
Who was this Deem Futz?  How could he lead a church full of gung ho Marines? Aaron smiled at that simpleton.  His own complexity was a hallmark of himself as a political animal and had allowed him to rise in confidence in the view of many.  In time this new bishop would give him more and more.  He had once been naive, long ago, but there were things you had to do sometimes, for the church, that brought a maturity on one. He'd been making more and more of those compromised choices recently.  He wished he could get back to the naivite of a Deem Futz.  When he sold his soul, he hoped it would bring a high price.  But didn't that mean he had already?\par
\par
What can a man give in exchange for his soul, he thought to himself, and, that Deem Futz is having a disturbing effect on me. \par
\par
\cf2\f1\lang9  \cf0\f0\lang1033  \par
}
 