{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 1400 July 6, 2016 Nicholls\b0\par
  "Man, it's hot out there."  Chad picked up his water glass and looked at it.  At the water, not through it. It was a sort of murky brown.  A small, somewhat transparent piece of ice was contemplating melting on top, hesitant to dissolve its clean waters amongst the unknown. \par
The fellow across from him laughed. "You know how we can tell if someone is from out of town?"  He was a big-boned, square-jawed, crewcut, well-muscled specimen about the same age as Chad.  His volume was about twice as loud as necessary.\par
Chad shook his head. The water also smelled funny when he sniffed it: a sharp odor that he could not place.  Maybe chlorine, like in a swimming pool.\par
"If you are from out of town, you wait until the stuff settles out. If you are from Nicholls, you swirl it up and drink in all those nice nutrients!" He laughed again, a deep- full-throated roar of joy, and so did about four other people who overheard.   He slapped the table, and the glasses shook. That laugh was loud, and also infectious.  Chad could not help laughing, too. Would he be laughing stuck on the toilet for three days? Or dying of dehydration? He still laughed, sighed and drank it. It had a sharp taste and a slight odor, not unpleasant. He told himself to brush his teeth soon and buy a lot of bottled water before he came back here.\par
"Uh-huh. I'm from out of town all right. I drive that thumper-truck for Acme Energy, the one that's parked out in the street."\par
"I saw that. What is that thing, anyway?  Looks like a cross between an oil tanker and the Eiffel Tower. " He  laughed again.  Chad half-noticed that other conversations were dying down. People were listening.  The truck was a novelty.  People tended to be curious. \par
"It's for geotechnical exploration. The engineers and geologists back in some nice cool air conditioned office run the numbers and send me the coordinates.  Then I go and park the truck wherever, set up the satellite dish, and push a button. The truck has sensors and, depending on the type of test, either it drills a hole and blasts or hits the ground with something like a big hammer and measures the vibrations."\par
"So what do you do?"\par
"I get to drive, of course.  And there is a certain amount of maintenance and calibration that has to happen. I also switch out different test rigs for the different tests."\par
"You' re not another of those treasure hunters, are you?"\par
"I just drive the rig. I figure I'll be out of here in a few days - I go all over the country.  Mainly looking for likely oil sites.  None around here, but then this county has sort of been bypassed.  Not very promising for oil. It's not the first time someone has wondered if I am a treasure hunter. Happens a lot.  But I won't get rich off it. Do you have a story about some treasure hidden nearby? Some towns have interesting stories. I'd like to hear yours, if you don't mind." \par
"Well, right after the civil war - the story goes - someone - they think someone - buried a whole lot of gold and stuff around here.  It's a local legend, nothing to it, but we get people looking for it from time to time.  I figure the whole county and then some has been picked over, but all we got is rock. You can blow off the dirt and see rock in a lot of this county - a lot of places have less than six inches of soil. More on the east side, where it drops down towards the Lake, less on the west side - particularly directly west of Nicholls, where those folk live.  It is tough to dig anything. Not even cave country. Cass County north of us and Bates County south have all the soil. And Henry County. And over in Kansas. But here? It's like someone stole the topsoil. Nicholls is the only town.  There are a few other people, like out at the Ranch, west of Nicholls.  Those people keep to themselves somewhat.  Nice people, but different. And there are some other people,  a few ranchers and farmers east of I-49, but the county is mostly vacant."\par
"Yeah, the topsoil is pretty thin, even in the creekbeds.  The water runs on rock. How much treasure are you talking about?"\par
"Who knows? It is just a story."\par
Chad nodded. Then he thought about the pattern he was thumping. He knew what patterns were used for searching for oil and other minerals.  The pattern he was using was for anomalies closer to the surface, like old mines or caves, or buried metals. Usually he didn't ask or care why he was told to thump where - it didn't matter, and it was none of his business - but he was wondering. What did they know? Eventually he was supposed to thump the whole western half of the county in a fairly close pattern, which was unusual. But he said nothing.  They did not pay him to say a whole lot, in fact his work was supposed to be completely confidential, and they tended to not tell him more than he needed to know. But the thumper truck cost a lot of money to run, and someone was looking for something.  It was being used as a glorified metal detector. Why? Something had prompted this. What? He was also waiting on the paperwork. He had to have permission to enter.  It hadn't arrived. Until then he sat in this air-conditioned  cafe by day, in a motel up in Harrisonville by night.  There were no motels or hotels in Nicholls.\par
"Don't know what I'd do...if I found that money."\par
The voice was quiet, from a figure sitting  with a half dozen or so beer bottles on the table in front of him, mostly empty.  His buddy at the same table nodded. Their heads were down but they were both looking at Chad.\par
"What would you do, Harry?"\par
"I might do anything. "\par
"Anything?"  his buddy nodded again.\par
"ANYTHING. In fact, if I knew anyone else had that money, I might do anything to get it. Knowing it was there....that would be enough."  The man wasn't really looking at anyone, now.  His hair and beard were long and unkempt, unusual in this town.  He looked old, somehow, although he wasn't.  His buddy was a little cleaner. The first man was pretty skinny, his buddy less so, but not anywhere near overweight.\par
Chad looked at them with a mix of curiosity and alarm. Someone told him that's Crazy Harry. But Crazy Harry just ignored that and kept talking.  Chad could feel his stomach tightening as Crazy Harry continued.  It seemed to be a dialog with his buddy, long rehearsed and repeated.  In the course of his work Chad had been threatened, bitten by dogs, charged by cattle, had surprised snakes and dealt with a wild boar.  But this was chilling.\par
"That ain't right, Harry."\par
"No right. No wrong. Nothing's right. Therefore, my friend, nothing is wrong."\par
"Well, Harry, there is mercy and compassion. And love. They say love makes the world go round."\par
"Love? Love." Harry spat the word out. "No compassion, my friend. I have the stone cold heart of a killer.  I would deal with the situation, that is what I would do.  There is no warmth, no kindness in the universe. That's what life has taught me. There is kill or be killed, take or be taken. Shoot first. Let them people die for their country." Crazy Harry just spoke in a monotone.  Chad wondered how often he had said this. It sounded like he had said it so many times it was like a recording. Crazy Harry looked at no one and just said it calmly.\par
"Did you die for your country, Harry?" his buddy wasn't looking at anyting, either. Chad could see both faces. They looked kind of bored, like they had said this a million times, or they were actors sick of their parts that they had to deliver.\par
"God knows I died for my country. Left my life out there.  Left good men six feet under, my friends."\par
"I'm your friend, Harry.  I was there.  There is supposed to be a God people go to, Harry."\par
"No God - so how could He know? Speculation, that is all, divorced from life. He does not care if He is up there. My life is over."\par
"Then it is time to bury you."\par
"Bury me, bury me six feet under. Bury me good. No tombstone 'cause I don't want anyone to know they buried a man long dead."\par
"What would change things, Harry?"\par
"That treasure would change things. I would be alive again. Life. Breath. Happiness. Take the pain away. Take away the pain of being dead. I am dead but I still breathe. God knows. But He does not exist. Why, if He does not exist, is He so keen on intruding in my thoughts? Can't hide from someone who does not exist. I hate him."\par
"Harry, you need to have a come-to-Jesus moment."\par
"False salvation. Keep your Jesus and give me money. Fast cars. Beer. Women. I used to feel guilty but that was long ago. Maybe I am not a man because I have no conscience. I am no longer human. Money would change that. Treasure. Lots of money. They should pay me for what they told me to do. Nothing is worth that much. Nothing. But I will settle for a pile of treasure worth more than this stinking town. The town stinks. Life stinks. I stink. That would fix it, and the comfort of alcohol and women.  Maybe those filthy commies out at the Ranch are sitting on it, hiding it, spending it. Filthy crazy tongue-talking Jesus-loving commies.   And do I care what you think? You can stick it, for all I care."\par
"I don't really care, either, Harry. You've said this a million times. We've sat here and said this stuff for years. We are sick of it."\par
"Yeah, we are sick of it." Harry raised his voice. "But you don't want to hear it." With that he glared around the room, used both hands to stand unsteadily.  Chad was surprised: he was a lot taller than he had expected.  Harry knocked over his beer, and his empties.  Beer ran off the table and down his front, somehow, in getting up, and down his legs. He grabbed his last open bottle, stumbled outside and turned out of sight. Conversation got back to the normal low buzz. \par
The waitress cleaned up the mess. Harry's buddy watched him go out the door, watched as the mess was cleared up. He said something to the waitress, but she only shook her head. He then got up and went out the door. He looked both ways and sort of stumbled the way Harry had not gone out of sight.\par
"So what happened to him?' Chad whispered to the man across from him.\par
"Let's just say the Corps wasn't as kind to him as anyone would like. Some people come back more Marine than ever, some better, but some - don't.  Some never come back.  You won't be in town very long before you will know that the Nicholls high school classes of 1940 through 1944 - the men, that is - are all buried on islands out in the Pacific. They never came back. Worst blow this town ever took, even worse than dealing with our VIetnam vets."\par
Chad nodded sadly, "So I imagine.  I can't begin to understand what Harry has gone through, or this town."\par
"No you can't. This town has suffered but endures. Most everyone believes that treasure does not exist.  They scraped all the dirt off the Miller property looking for it long ago.  People have forgotten about the treasure.  Now it's all we will talk about for thirty days. It's like that.  Give it a month and talk will die down.  But not until then." \par
-----\par
Aaron dropped Deem off on Main Street so he could get a feel of the town alone.  Aaron had told him there was a restaurant here, well, the Nicholls Diner, and Deem was thirsty  in the heat. He had seen it earlier and figured he could meet some regular folks, get to know the town. He had never meet such confrontational people in his life. But if those were the elders...He did not finish the thought.   He hoped to meet some friendlier types. He thought again about his interview. Why would God send him here? He was thinking about how God moves in mysterious ways when\par
Oof.\par
It was a tall, skinny beer-drenched man who plowed straight into him and knocked him down. The beer he had been holding splashed all over Deem.  Now Deem had at least half the bottle on his shirt, his jacket, his tie, and down his pants. His best suit. His only suit, actually. Well.  In the whole of creation, it was pretty insignificant, wasn't it?\par
"Terribly sorry," said the man.  Deem realized he wasn't particularly drunk, or sorry. "Let me help you up." He grabbed Deem's elbow and was surprisingly strong and fast in putting Deem back on his feet. Wth a shock Deem realized he was the man who had stared at him from the restaurant earlier.  Deem had to brace himself - he had the idea the man intended to pull him over onto his face. The man let go before it was too obvious, and looked up and down the street. He was expecting Deem to attack, and had his hands ready and all his weight on his back foot as he turned sideways.  His face was cold, hostile.  Deem wondered if he was insane or something.  Maybe one of the PTSD types Nicholls had?\par
 Deem smiled his best smile, hoping it did not look forced. "Hi, I'm Deem, Deem Futz. I'm a candidate for the pastorate at the Episcopal Presbyterian Church here."\par
Before he was through with that, the man had decided Deem had no fight in him and he turned contemptuously away.\par
 Deem felt like his insides were about to explode.  \par
"And your name is?" Deem was trying to be civil.   \par
"What?" the man turned around, surprised,"Well, God --."\par
"No, God BLESS," Deem returned.  He migtht have a bruised elbow for a week, but he had suffered worse at soccer in seminary.  And for that, judo when he had been younger. He had been successful because his opponents tended to seriously underestimate him, something that he retained even now.  He tended to get underestimated.  Nothing was broken.  He had learned that he didn't become aware of pain sometimes until only later. He dusted himself off and shook off some of the beer.  The man waited, tense, about four feet away, looking like he wanted nothing better than a fight. In return Deem smiled at him.  'A soft answer turns away wrath' he thought. \par
"So...You're on God's  side, huh? A stinking Protestant.  Don't think I like stinking Catholics, though. I hate all kinds of religious people. Pastor Disaster, that is what you are. You are the sorriest -" The man unleashed a string of the vilest profanity Deem had ever heard, in combinations of words and images that were obscene and vivid. Deem found himself marvelling at the inventive choice of words and forceful, colorful language.  He allowed the hostility to go right by him and admired the man's amazing verbal constructions.  Deem wished he could express himself that well. But not in that way, of course. \par
In spite of that Deem continued to smile. "You seem to have a singular command of the English language," he said.  He hoped his smile did not look forced. Deem realized the mans problem was not Deem, but God.  It was hard for him to take it personally.  He decided not to even try.\par
The man looked startled and bewildered. \par
"Who the --- are YOU? You don't live here. You one of those treasure seeking fairies? I bet you are, you little wimp."\par
"As I said, I am Deem Futz.  II'm a candidate for the pastorate at the Episcopal Presbyterian Church here. Aren't we all seeking treasure?"\par
"You some kind of --- philosopher? You're crazy, man."  He turned to leave.  "I don't like getting  preached at.  Keep your nose in your own business."\par
"We all are philosophers, in one way or another.  Isn't it worse to think you are sane when you are not?"\par
"Go --- yourself," he replied, and staggered off. He turned and said,"They call me Harry. Crazy Harry. That is not my name but best you remember to call me that. Better yet, leave. You are not wanted here.   All you goody-two-shoes can go ---."\par
Deem watched him for a minute, amazed.  The man was just drunk enough to have a small amount of trouble walking, but not drunk enough that he could not walk.  And he seemed to be in enough control of himself that Deem, again,  could not avoid the impression the collision had been deliberate.  As Deem watched, he became fully convinced the man was not at all drunk. So the beer "accident" was fully intentional and premeditated.  But why? He did not know the man at all.  \par
Oddly enough, nothing he had said bothered Deem.  He wasn't someone whose opinion he valued, just "some drunk on the street." At this Deem grinned to himself.\par
This was Main Street, parked full of trucks.  The buildings were right up against the sidewalk and each other, two-stories.  The lower floor was a store or other business and the second floor was either offices or residential.  \tab Brick below, ornamented above, all in spectacularly good repair, the second floor ornaments brightly painted.  There were flower planters along the bottoms of most of the second story windows, with bright flowers, that somehow suggested Europe.  It was clean, cleaner than he would expect.  Where there was brasswork, like on the hinges, door handles and mailbox slots, it was brightly polished.  There was no trash and there were no weeds in the sidewalk or in the little narrow alleys between some of the buildings. Main Street in Disneyland came to his mind.  But here everyone was armed. What a town. \par
Deem was surprised that all buildings were occupied: in most small towns that he had seen, the downtown had a lot of vacancies. A few people were about. They would mostly smile briefly  and nod their heads at him as they passed. But at this time of day most people were working.  He passed several buldings right up against each other. Then, oddly, there was a strange little alley.  It was  two feet wide, so narrow that most adults would have turn to go down it. It was paved and empty. At the far end it was blocked by a chain link fence.  Deem wondered why they did this.  Maybe that could be a conversation opener. He looked across the street, and there were several more of these between some, but not all, of the buildings. Odd. \par
Here, again, was the restaurant.  Deem suddenly felt a little disoriented.  It was a storefront, just like when they had driven by,  with full-paned window displays and a recessed door, so you went down a little covered area to the glass doors. On either side, in the deep display areas, were booths, currently empty. Lineoleum floor, tile walls, kind of a 1950s retro look, although Deem had a feeling it had always been like that.  There was a big sign in the window with ornate lettering: a boy was holding a banana split in his hands and grinning with expectation. "Mm-mm good!" the caption said.  Coffee. Peanut butter burgers. Shakes. The paint was perfect.  There were no smudges or dirt on the glass. Neither was there a name on the restaurant.  Deem figured they thought everyone knew where it was, so why should they put a name on it?\par
He pushed the door open carefully, so as not to leave a smudge on the brightly polished brass plate,  and a the little bell on the inside of the  door jingled.  The place was cool and darker than the brightly lit street.  A smell of grease and sugar, mixed with sweat and ancient  tobacco from years before, although smoking was no longer permitted, coffee and some smells he could not place rolled up and smacked him in the face. It was pungent and compelling.  Although he had been thirsty, he was now very hungry.  There was a wide main aisle back to an old-fashioned diner bar with stools and a teenaged boy in a startlingly white hat making shakes for a few people at the counter.  On either side of the aisle were tables, small square tables that would seat four, with vinyl-seated chairs.  There were about seven men seated in twos and threes, and three women seated by themselves. There was a waitress now going back into the kitchen. A few people were sitting alone.\par
 Conversation died down a little as they sized up the stranger.\par
"You must have met Crazy Harry," said one man, looking at Deem's clothes. \par
"Yep."\par
"Margot'll get you a towel.  Best you go home and change."\par
The man, having given good advice and expecting it to be followed,  then ignored him and returned to his discussion with the man across from him.  Both were armed.  Deem took a seat near the door.  \par
\i MG Smedley Butler,USMC\i0 , it said on the wall opposite.  There was a picture, a half-profile, if you will, of a  older Marine in uniform.  There was a juke box, not in use, a gum machine, a station for the waitress with glasses, plates, silverware and napkins..  At a table near the kitchen a man, perhaps the owner, more likely an accountant, had books in front of him and a calculator.  He seemed to be working on the accounts. Deem wondered if he had been a Marine - he was wider than most of the people he had seen here, and bald, although not out of his thirties.  Deem realized he had seen no one who could be described as remotely overweight.  The whole town seemed to be fit.  Fit and armed and militant.  The man  frowned into his work and from time to time looked up to see what the boy behind the counter was doing, with a look that said he had better be working.  Behind him was an enormous stuffed  bear on its hind legs, mouth open, arms ready to strike and smash all the books and the accountant with his back turned to him. Was it a grizzly? So lifelike-\par
"Excuse me sir, but that seat is reserved. That is Harry's. He don't like it when anybody sits there." This was the waitress.  "I'm Margot. Here, please let me seat you over here."  Swiftly a water glass, a napkin and silverware appeared at a table, and she pulled the chair out for him. "I'll get you a wet rag, if you'd like, to clean up with."  Deem siddently realized he needed it.  He really needed it. "Make that a towel," she added.\par
"Then I'll move," Deem said, looking up from his shirt and smiling.  She did not return the smile, possibly because she was gone by the time he finished his short sentence.  She was in her thirties, thin, blondish-brown hair up under a cap, in a white uniform, a pistol was holstered at the small of her back.  She moved quickly and was gone by the time he had noticed this. As Deem was getting up Crazy Harry came back through the door.  Deem was working on the fact that she was packing heat. The waitress is armed.  Better not complain about the service....Deem missed Crazy Harry's entrance, followed by his buddy.\par
"Aw, man," said Crazy Harry,"You were sitting in my seat. My seat. The throne of my domain, if you will.  You want to be king around here.  You did that on purpose, just to provoke me.  Didn't you? If you want to play king of the hill, let's take this outside, right now.  I don't like you, little man. Best you leave Nicholls and we never see you again. BEER!" The last was to the waitress. who had reappeared.  Harry and Deem locked eyes. His buddy stared at him as well. \par
 Somehow Margot got between them, looking at Crazy Harry. "No foul talk in here, Harry, remember that."  He backed off and sat down.  His buddy followed him.  Then she saw to it that Deem took his seat.  Her expression was somewhere between that of a drill instructor and a school marm.  Margot, thought Deem, was no one to argue with. The accountant was watching with a hard cold stare, his lips a thin straight line.\par
"Well, I see you are too smart to fight someone who would stomp your guts out without hesitation. Kind of admirable, if I may say so."\par
"Well, thank you," said Deem. Perhaps his patience would be soon rewarded. His eyes went back to the Marine on the wall.\par
"I'm talking about Margot." He snorted a laugh. "As for me, I wouldn't want the bother of cleaning my boots. You ain't worth it.  Hey," he addressed his friend,"allow me to in-tro-duce you to Pas-tor Dis-as-TOR. He is a stinking Protestant.  Do you hate stinking Protestants as much as I do?"\par
"Harry, no one hates Protestants as much as you do."\par
"You forgot the STINKING part. Maybe we can see some miracles around here. Hey, Pastor Disaster, can you do some miracles right now so we can believe?"\par
Deem smiled. "That is entirely up to God."\par
"Thought so.  It never fails and he never does any miracles.  You are doing a lousy job at it and at making us believe. You need to know that. I am singularly unimpressed. Singularly. Are you impressed, my friend?"\par
"Not at all.  But  Margot wants us to play nice."\par
 Ok, ok.  Pastor Disaster, do you know who Smedley Darlington Butler WAS?" Crazy Harry demanded.\par
"No," said Deem, and attempted to smile disarmingly.\par
"Not surprising.  Allow me to further your education, since you are so lacking in that, as well as in every other department I have surveyed.  Until Chesty Puller, he was the most decorated Marine, ever.  He wrote 'War is a Racket.'  I supposed you have not read it."\par
"No, I have not."\par
"I bet you waste your time reading books about God.  Well, General Butler talks about how war is a racket.  Young men go off and die for corporate interests. For the big man. For the sake of other people's desires. For their treasure.... I am not a treasure-seeking fairy," Crazy Harry started up. "Let me tell you: it is a waste of time to seek treasure.  Allow me to tell you what I count as treasure. I have my treasure: beer, courtesy of the United States Gov'ment.  And my other treasure. You know what my other treasure is, fairy? It is grudges. I have a mountain of them.  Someday everyone will pay me back.  I am rich in treasure.  Don't give me that God stuff, Pastor Disaster,  that 'store up your treasure in heaven' stuff.  Been there, done that, beer is better. Life is short, death is forever. Poetry. I am a poet."\par
"Religion is a racket. They are in it to support - you are in it to support - the corporate interests. Make people feel good. Religion is the opiate of the people.  That was what Karl Marx said, but it is true anyway, even if he was a long-haired worthless commie. We got commies here out at the stinking Ranch. Freaks. Why are you a sell-out? Nothing better to do with your life? I bet you never even tried for the Corps. But they probably would not have taken you anyway. No disrespect meant, no sir. Allow me to philosophize and lay on you some of my philosophical observations, Pastor Disaster." And you are a candidate, is that right? You are not yet the pastor? Just interviewing? It is still yours to lose, loser?"\par
"That is right."\par
"Who do I tell that you stink as a pastor? Who do I tell what a loser you are? You fall down on the street. I saw it.  I had to help you up."\par
"I bet you'll tell the whole town," his fried chimed in.\par
"   You can't walk and chew gum at the same time. You weren't even chewing gum...That's right. I'll tell everybody."\par
Deem stood and looked around for the men's room, as he realized he was still filthy. Getting away from this would also be good. The waitress was not yet back. "Excuse me," he said to Crazy Harry, as if to end the conversation.\par
"I wouldn't, if I were you," someone said,"He'll follow you in there. Sometimes he makes his 'philosophical observations' with his fists, especially if you walk out on them. Best you sit down here." The speaker was sitting across from where Deem was passing. He was a fit, chiseled-type, with a crewcut and everything about him said he had been in the Marines and, in some way, always would be.  He was about fifty years old.  He had a short trim beard like an Epper elder.   Deem suddenly realized this was one of the elders he had met earlier, or his identical twin brother.  Had Aaron known? Was this planned? Was he to "accidentally run into" all the elders one on one? Or was it just a small town? "Sit down here, please. Margot will get you something to clean up with.  Best for you if you are not alone.  Harry will leave you alone over here.  Besides, here is a one-on-one.  It may go a little kinder than the church basement.  Better than a one-on-one with Crazy Harry. Or a two-on-one with his sidekick."  Deem nodded.\par
Margot was already there, holding out a damp washcloth for him. Deem took it and thanked her.  She swiftly reset the table for him, using new silverware, waterglass and napkin, because of course what she had laid out for him at the other table was now used.\par
Harry grew quiet. His friend was slouched over, his head on the table.\par
"Coffee?" Margot asked Deem.\par
"In this heat?"\par
"Some people say it makes the heat more tolerable."\par
"Well...How about a soda?"\par
"We have all kinds of pop. What would you like?  We have beer as well."\par
He ordered and turned to this man.  Despite earlier, perhaps they could be friends.  Deem could use a few. \par
"I'm Nathan Bread," Nathan said. They shook hands while Deem was wiping himself off. \par
"My name is Deem Futz."\par
An incredible stream of loud profanity burst forth from Harry in his seat.  The accountant got up and began walking toward Crazy Harry.\par
"So...How do you find Nicholls? If I may ask." Behind Deem Crazy Harry had started up again, annoyed that Deem was not listening, or trying not to.  He had had enough beer, several strong people were telling him, including the accountant, and he really needed to go home.  They would help him. He didn't want to go.  \par
"I'm - thanks -" Deem took a sip of water from the glass that had suddenly appeared, looked at the water, surprised, and continued,"Frankly, it is about the most brusque place I have ever been too.  I am amazed."\par
"I think it must be the rough-and-rough Marine thing.  But we are not all like that, not all the time.  Some people think the Marines here are fighting a rear-guard action against modernity and people moving into town who are not old-timers.  We have our culture.  But let me tell you, we elders are on your side.  I know it doesn't feel like it. at least not yet, but there it is.  Not everyone here is a Marine.  But a lot are."\par
Deem smiled. "I guess so.  Glad you're here." Behind him was a commotion as Crazy Harry was strong-armed out and taken off out of sight, shouting the whole time. No one else paid much attention to this. Margot straightened up some chairs that had gotten knocked over and swapped Deem's wet rag for another. His friend slept on, undisturbed by the commotion.\par
The accountant came back in and resumed his place.  Now he was smiling, however. "That felt good,"  he said to no one in particular.\par
"Are you hungry?" asked Margot. "You're the padre, or may be soon, so the meal is on us. Sorry about Harry."\par
"What's good?"\par
"Everything." Margot smiled.\par
Nathan said,"Get the peanut-butter burger."\par
"That's an Angus beef patty, well done, usually, with creamy peanut butter and two slices American. The Angus is local.  We lightly toast the buns.  How about it?"\par
Deem said, "Sounds good to me."  Inside he thought this would be a new experience. Who puts peanut butter on a burger? Who?\par
After determining that he wanted it medium rare, no bacon, with a side of slaw and a pickle, Margot was gone.\par
"Crazy Harry isn't the only one like that.  If you want a ministry to PTSD types, Nicholls is the place.  But best you put your time in the Corps.  We hoped to see that in Pastor Hartmann, but...  Most of those people have an attitude about it. Otherwise it would be - challenging."\par
"Do you know what happened to the last pastor?"\par
"Well, why don't you tell me what you have heard."\par
"I heard it didn't work out."\par
"Yeah.  Let's just say Pastor Hartmann was a squared-away Marine's Marine and thought what the church needed was more discipline and less frivolity. Some people went for it, but it scared off about half the congregation.  They drive up to Kansas City someplace now.  Others just stopped going or go out of town other places.  Pastor Hartmann quit - you could say - some people think it ws because the elders asked him to leave, or because the bishop did, or he did so anyway, despite his determination to stick it out here - I don't know what tipped it, really whether he quit or was fired or was asked to leave rather strongly  - he realized his style was a bit too much but he also thought he could not change it.  I don't know where he is now.  I'm guessing a chaplain at a disciplinary barracks.  So the church is kind of tired, looking for someone who is NOT so squared away.  Pastor Schmidt was there for forty years - he died five years ago, before Pastor Hartmann.  He was a wise old bird and knew how to keep us together as a congregation."\par
"Keeping the congregation together....How is that working out?"\par
"This is a small town. An echo chamber. You hear everything.  Everyone in town knows what happened, and a lot of this town used to go here, still live here.  There are only two churches in town, ours and the Catholic Church, St.George's. But, yeah.  We have lost a lot a lot of people.  Pastor Schmidt is deeply missed. Old Hartmann  was a hard one. Now we need to put the church back together.  Here's hoping.  But for me, I'll watch and wait and do what I can. We need to reach the non-Marines in town, and the Marines.  We're hoping you are the right man for the job."\par
"So I figure."\par
"Are you up to it?" \par
"This town, if nothing else, is direct. Wow. If I said I was that would be presumptuous, but if I said I wasn't, I'd be doubting God.  God is up to it, and I think he may be willing to use even me." \par
"Did they tell you the money problem at the church?"\par
"No. It wasn't  much of a meeting today. I was planning to ask a number of questions."\par
"I meant before today.  I was there, remember?"\par
It clicked, then.  Deem had had a feeling he had seen him before. About twenty minutes before. He could have kicked himself.\par
"Well, few of our bills have been paid in four months and if we don't make the rent on the building they are going to kick us out. Only they don't want it, I mean, what would a bank do with a church?  And that is after we lost the building we owned due to our difficulties.  At the moment, the elders seem to be just about the only ones giving anything to the church.  And we aren't rich, not by a long shot." \par
"So how much is owed?"\par
"Well. It was all paid off and everything was fine until Pastor Hartmann showed up. Then he spent a lot of money on a new piano and redocorating the sanctuary and giving money to the poor - not bad,that, not at all, and on missions - he didn['t take it for himself, you know, he didn't do anything for himself - and borrowed money for a lot of it, only there is no way to repay it, before he drove all those people out.  We owe millions of dollars. Millions.  We don't have ten thousand dollars, let alone millions. We lost our church building, already. We elders kind of feel like we got rolled.  He could be very persuasive. Now they are going after where we are renting!  Here is the letter from the owner."\par
Deem looked at it.  They had one week before the bank was going to ask the sherriff to padlock the church?   Why was he even here interviewing?  Come to think of it, he really had no choice.\par
"Maybe someone will find the treasure," Nathan said.  He looked at Deem,"Oh, it's just an expression we use around here. Sort of like  'When horses have wings, '  I guess."\par
"Will he padlock the church?"\par
"Who knows? You don't do stuff like that in a small town.  We all know each other. I would be surprised.  Maybe in a big city they would do it.  But the owner owes money to the bank, and the bank is now owned out of town.  The owner is a local, caught between the two.  He used to attand here, until a couple of months ago. The sherriff is local - used to attend here - he padlocked us out of our old building - probably wouldn't get around to it for a while.  We all live here, together, know each other. Our parents, brothers and sisters, wives, cousins, kids all know each other."\par
Deem could think of nothing intelligent to add to that.  Back to the treasure. "Where's it from? I mean, I think the Miller treasure is a fable, but do you think there is any basis for it?"\par
Nathan shook his head. "I always heard it was silver being taken from Santa Fe to Independence, and the wagon train was ambushed by the Pawnee on that land in the 1840s. There is another story about bank robbers hiding it here that you should hear some time.  I think if there was anything out there, it would have been found by now. And there is more than one story about the treasure, which makes you wonder.  Maybe whoever hid it took it long ago, if there ever was any. But I will tell you one thing, there are people in this town who would kill for it.  During the Depression there were hundreds of people crawling all over the Mueller property. A lot of people believe in the treasure, although, as far as I know, there has never been any hard evidence.  Just a belief that it is there.  The crazy thing is, there is no where it could be hidden.  But that does not slow people down. The story about the robbers is that during the Civil War -"\par
"Excuse me. So you're the pastoral candidate? Excuse me." She was big and  loud and had arrived with determination. She now stood a little too close. Just a little too close. Deem was seeing two things at once in her: a meekness, and a frightening boldness.  Her words were polite enough, but there was a force, almost a rudeness behind them.  At the time Deem thought she was speaking in a soft little voice. Or maybe she was shouting, or doing both at once somehow. It was impossible to define exactly what her tone was: somewhere between absolute submission and absolute defiance, between being a doormat and crushing all resistence.  There was some of both in everything she said. For Deem it was like two different people were speaking at the same time, or taking turns, only you had no idea which one would show up next.\par
"Well, I am Peggy. Peggy Nicholls. I certainly hope you want the church to be run right, because for a long time now that hasn't happened.  Well. I grew up in this church and things were done correctly, when I was a child, and let me tell you, this new levity and this new, new everything simply isn't appropriate.  And I hope you don't come waltzing in and make a bunch of changes without talking to the people who are the heart and soul of the church  - my sisters, cousins and I, my whole family, that is, have been in this church since it was started - well, without being presumptuous and demanding, because that would not, would not be fitting, I want you to know straight out , with respect, that there are certain ways the church needs to be run - they are very important to us." She glanced down at Nathan Bread.  Deem had a feeling that if he had not been there,  Peggy would have crossed the line from respect to disrespect.  It seemed to him that two hundred years of drill seargent DNA was under a thin veneer of civility, looking for a way to break out.  He also realized that  the whole place was a lot emptier since Peggy arrived, but then Peggy seemed to take up a lot of space. She stepped back to just the proper distance and clasped her hands submissively. Or to strike a two-handed blow.\par
She looked at Nathan and suddenly assumed a meek demeanor, which Deem found incongrous with her volume.  She slowed down her delivery and her volume. "I mean, they are important to a lot of people. To God. We must do His Work His way. Do you understand?" The last was delivered in almost a whisper.  Deem pictured generations of her Marine relatives rolling their eyes at her current delivery. She was also leading an assault on an enemy position.  \par
Deem said he did understand.\par
"Now, what kind of a name do you have there? What is wrong with your family that they gave you a name like that?"\par
"Peggy -" this was Nathan.\par
"Pardon me," said Peggy meekly,"I mean, your name is very unusual.  But my question was out of line, intrusive and ruder than the United States Army. I apologize. Forgive me."\par
"It's an old family name." Deem wondered what was really going on here.  .  His father had been in the Army.  Did she know that, and was she trying to step on his toes? Why would she do that?  Deem figured it was just an expression people in a town like Nicholls might use. \par
"Peggy," said Nathan,"be polite.  I should not need to remind you whom you are speaking to."\par
"An old family name." She worked at accepting it, throttled something she was about to say, took a deep breath and backed off a foot. "Well. You might as well go through the motions of meeting the Decorating Committee.   I mean, you are invited to meet with the Decorating Committee.  We would like you to come.  We will meet with you and tell the elders what we think."\par
"Peggy, I think this has gone on long enough." Nathan spoke again. "You can meet with the new pastor after installation."\par
 "But at this point, Deem Futz" she pronounced it carefully, trying simultaneously to show that she had heard Nathan, and was duly submissive, but still had to let it out, she spoke with some distaste, a balancing act that actually amused Deem, "I don't see much chance of you getting the position. Nine AM SHARP at the church tomorrow morning. You understand. If you would like to come."\par
Nathan told her there would be no meeting, not yet, with the Decorating Committee.  Peggy took it in stride, sort of, by nodding her head towards Nathan and then turning away from them, and silently leaving.\par
Deem looked around. Nathan and Margot were the only other ones in the place.\par
"Nathan, who is that?"\par
"She is the head of the Decorating Committee. Nothing gets done without her at the church. She knows where everything is. She and her crew do all the decorating. All the hospitality. They handle the music and do just about everything except the preaching and counting the offerering. Best not cross her. Not yet.  That day will come.  She and her sisters and cousins are the Decorating Committee. "\par
"Thanks for the advice."\par
"Do you think you are up to this? This hostile town, a church about to go under, Peggy, other things you haven't seen yet?"  Nathan watched him carefully.\par
Deem smiled. "This is old familiar territory for me. I wouldn't know what to do without my old friend adversity.  We have been through a lot together."\par
Nathan smiled back.  And Deem ate his burger, finally, in peace.  Never order this again, he thought to himself. Never.  They made small talk. The weather.   Nathan would make a good friend.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 