{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green77\blue187;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green176\blue80;\red155\green0\blue211;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\b\f0\fs22\lang1033  \cf1\b0\i  \cf0\i0\par
\par
\cf2\f1\lang9\tab\cf3  \cf2 For unknown reasons Whiggins takes on himself the role of Deem's servant, brushing his clothes and taking care of him, although eating in the kitchen and has 'lower decks manners.  This guy, accepted by Deem, is on parole? for a crime he will not discuss.  Aaron has severe objections but Deem accepts him.\par
\par
Whiggins spends a long time washing his hands. They are perfectly clean, but he tells Deem he can still see the blood.  They go off and have a long talk alone. \cf0\f0\lang1033\par
\par
When Aaron pulled up, Kitten, ramrod straight and angry, was barking at people to get off his lawn. He sourly looked at Aaron and more so at Deem after they pull in.  There was a small crowd that Kitten dispersed because the show was over.  The heat was also immense. He had come home to find them on his crunchy brown lawn that normally he exterminated every weed in and checked the past locations of all weeds that had ever dared attempt an attack over the last fifty years.  In good weather it was like a carpet.  Now it was brittle brown clumps standing between pale brown, baked dirt and small rocks, which annoyed Kitten even more, because he wanted a solid sea of green, but the topsoil was not very deep and the rocks would rise somehow, like little corks or something. Maddening. He stomped down the path to the driveway to meet the car before they, too, violated his holy lawn. \par
\par
"Whiggins," he said, and broke out in a smile."Good to see you."\par
\par
"Good to see you too, Sarge.  Didn't know you were in on this."\par
\par
"Yeah.  Pastor Hartmann made me an elder. Didncha know? I'm the oldest living Marine in this town, so I gotta be an elder. So I was made elder.  And now this candidate is staying with me tonight."\par
\par
"Is he? He's a fine man, Kitten."  \par
\par
"I'll be the judge of that."\par
\par
"You know him?" Aaron was aghast.\par
\par
"This is a small town," Kitten responded. "Everyone knows everyone. And everyone's business.  This whoreson is Whiggins. Now, he is staying with me. Ain't that right?"\par
\par
"Thanks, Kitten. Don't mind it. I'm Deem's personal assistant."\par
\par
"Deem, your stock just went up a bunch with me on that.  Whiggins, straighten him out."  This was absolutely and completely meaningless in Aaron's ears. \par
\par
"Aye-aye sir."\par
\par
"Sarge and my grandfather served together."\par
\par
"Fox hole buddies on Okinawa. His grandfather and me.  I kept that young poorly trained Marine alive.  Better than I could do for a lot of guys.  They would show up and die before we got to know them - a lot of them were just rushed through boot camp and shipped out, because the Corps needed bodies, and they got bodies out of it, grave yards full of bodies."\par
\par
"Whenever it got cold and rainy, Granddad could not sleep, and Sarge here would take him out and they would sit in a muddy hole."\par
\par
"Just like Okinawa.  That was the only place he could sleep sometimes, his last few years.  Whenever it was cold and rainy, he would get up and pace.  Could not sleep for the life of him. Waist deep in cold muddy water, he could sleep under a poncho."\par
\par
"And you both got pneumonia."\par
\par
"Yeah. Only he didn't make it, and I did, and I'm older.  Some things you just don't need the reason for.  I knew your dad, a good egg, and then there is you. What happened to your bearing? You're a Marine, and look at you!"\par
\par
"I came back and found out about my family. No excuse, sir."\par
\par
"They never told you? Those Rear Echelon Mother - figures?"\par
\par
"No. We were out taking a long walk in the sand at the time. When we came in from the cold, I wasn't where I started from.  News didn't reach us.  And then I got sent home, and them dead."\par
\par
"Sorry, son."\par
\par
"I talked to Pastor Hartmann.  He was no help.  So I went downhill. But now I am personal servant to Pastor Deem Futz. Life will be better."\par
\par
"You are, are you? We'll see about that. Now go inside and get yourself a shower and a shave. We'll burn those clothes.  Leave them on the back porch. No, don't go into the house until you strip.  I'll find you some clothes. Then go get that hair dealt with. Shower's upstairs. "\par
\par
"One more thing. You're dealing with Christians here. God already passed faith out to us and it is your turn. I got Jesus back in the 50s," Kitten said,""What that Jesus needed was some properly trained Marines.  That cross business would never have happened if He had a rifle squad, any rifle squad in the Corps," Kitten said. "But you got to admire a guy who rises from the dead.  It's like he's God or something. Now He is commander in chief of the armies of God! General Jesus, that's what I like to call Him. He's going to come back and clean out the enemy positions with overpowering firepower. He is a combat officer AND He will get you an in with God on a personal basiis, cause of a family connection there.  It's all on the up and up because he's also a judge advocate and he will straighten things out between you and God, yes sir indeed, and declare you INNOCENT on all charges.  You just salute him and say yes sir to whatever he orders and he will get your butt out of hell if he has to. He's the DI in the sky. You understand?"\par
\par
"Wow," Whiggins said,"I never heard it put like that. Receiving faith, now, sir," Whiggins called, from the other side of the house. \par
\par
"Me neither," Aaron said. When this candidate business was over, maybe he would go on a retreat.  A long retreat somewhere with lots of trees. Birds.  Calm streams of water. He thought of Pickle Creek State Park.  Somewhere like that. \par
\par
"That's the way to do evangelism," Kitten said, teaching these kids, Aaron and Deem,"Order 'em to believe. They will. Works everytime."\cf4\par
\cf0\par
\par
Deem barely made it up the stairs to his barracks-style two bunk room with an air conditioner in the window, decorated with a map of Pelileu and a medals display. Whiggins was sleeping in the basement, so Deem had the room to himself.  Kitten informed him Deem would be down for supper, and Kitten showed him where he himself had landed on the map, and where he thought he was when they took him off the battlefield wounded - unconcious at the time - and he had found himself on a hospital ship.  Kitten told how he had managed to shoot his mouth off and stay in combat after almost everyone else had been rotated off.  And then he had gone to China.  Didn't do much between the end of that and Korea. He'd actually managed to retire as a Marine.  Drove a truck for years for different companies.  Deem quickly saw that Kitten was not living in the present.  He was the last alive, old and his friends were all dead.  One son is buried in Nicholls Cemetary, killed in Nam many years ago now.  He had other sons, all Marine vets. Fine men. Good eggs.  Deem noted he was fond of saying someone is a good egg.  He'd never written a book, unlike that Sledge or that Leckie fellow, although he'd read part of both but could not finish.  Too many memories. Both of them were dead and buried years ago.  Now, finally, they were at peace from the war.  It had always been with him.\par
\par
Deem accidentally dropped a water glass from the bannister at the top of the stair down onto the floor below.  Kitten, sitting in the dining area, hit  the deck.  He was furious. Water and glass everywhere.  Was that on purpose?  \par
\par
Whiggins insisted on eating in the kitchen if Deem was there, him being an officer and all and Whiggins his servant.  It was clear he considered himself such.  He cleaned up well and took care of Deem's clothing, shined his shoes and ran errands for him when needed.  Sometimes he just functioned as a bodyguard. \par
\cf2\f1\lang9\par
Kitten longed for the days when they had had a 4 AM town bugle, long discontinued.  It was when he was a boy. People exercised back then, people were in shape. None of this civilian lying in bed until all hours, this deplorable slackness seen in so many today.  That was the closest he came to directly rebuking Deem.\cf0\f0\lang1033\par
\par
\lang9 Kitten may be more of a caricature than I would like.    \cf2\f1\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\cf0\f0\lang1033\par
\par
Hollow-eyed stares at times.  'I lived through it and now I have to live with it.' 'Wth what?' 'Terror. For me the war will never be over.'  'Are you still angry with the Japanese?" "No. I worked through that. I hated them - we all did - but I think I am over that now.  But don't ask me to eat at a Japanese restaurant.'  Still was having nightmares.\par
\par
That night Kitten had a nightmare, wherein he was told to return to the front lines on Okinawa after being in reserve.  He woke up in a cold sweat, screaming.  Deem prayed for him, and he is surprised when he gets a sound night of sleep Thursday night.  Then Friday, and onward.  No one had prayed for him before, and he wondered why not, he told his wife. Her response was that she had been praying for him ever since he got back from the Pacific, and this was about the first time he had been able to sleep all night for two nights in a row.   Has buddies wounded, some in the Vet Home in Nicholls.  He takes Deem there. \par
\par
Kitten continually watched for snipers and will not go down certain streets in Nicholls with large trees.  He scanned rooflines habitually and has enormous situational awareness.  He is still stuck in World War 2.  He cannot abide fire works and sudden loud noises make him hit the deck.  He is a combat vet of Guadalcanal, Cape Gloucester, Pelielieu and the occupation of Manchuria - as well as Inchon and Pusan.  He also sees things, whether hallucinations or realities, and remembers false things.  Sargeant Colson, for example, was killed on Cape Gloucester, but Kitten sees him around town.  A Marine named Charles had died in 2014 but Kitten was insisting lately that he had died on Guadalcanal and they had gotten the date wrong. He also sees Marines guarding the church and Marine sentries around his house.  Sometimes he checks on them. He smells a Japanese position to the southwest and often wonders when the brass will order it taken out. \par
\par
 Kitten expected Deem to complain and whine. Before Deem said anything, Kitten said, "Cut the crap. We are interested in what you can do for us, not what happened to you." Deem thanked him for getting to the point  Kitten thought about it and says he realized Deem has not been complaining.  But he should be, says Kitten. Maybe. In any case he, Kitten Pfingster, was out of line. "I apologize," he told Deem, who shrugged it off.\par
\par
In evaluating Deem Kitten, then said he had to choose between Marine Corps gut-feel of what a good leader is, and the truth.  He had never had to do this before. He had lived by the fourteen traits. Kitten reeled them off.  Deem did not appear to be what he really was, Kitten admitted, which was why Kitten had just not straight-out rejected him.  Fair is fair and Kitten sought justice here.\par
\par
Deem did not seem to be able to say anything right in Kitten's eyes.  But Kitten kept backing off from that when he realized he was being unfair to Deem.\par
\par
Kitten showed Deem a map of Pelileu on the wall of his room. It showed the landing beaches and in red, hand-drawn, was a line that Kitten told him is the best guess as to his own movements.  There was a display case of medals and ribbons. "Yours?""No, my son's," Kitten said.  "The one we buried." \par
\par
There were also the fourteen USMC Leadership Traits on a poster, with Scripture references beneath each one and an expository paragraph.  Kitten watched Deem read through them. "That's what I'm talking about." Deem nodded. \par
\par
\par
In the middle of the night Kitten woke to use the head. He saw the light was on in Deem's room. He tiptoed in and saw Deem asleep at his desk and the sermon notes. He read enough Greek to realize there was a problem: this was hardly a promising start to a sermon.  He had noted Deem's procrastination silently at other points.  He could not hold Deem to Marine standards.  But he had to find a standard by which passing or failure would be valid. Somehow Deem had to merit it.  He couldn't just walk in and be given a pastorate, could he?\par
\par
\par
In the early morning Deem carried the empty water glass he had taken to his room and put it on the bannister while he tucked his shirt in. The glass fell, shattering onto the floor twenty feet below.  Downstairs he found Kitten hit the deck automatically. Getting up furious and red-faced  Kitten was initially suspicious that Deem had done it deliberately, but decided it was an accident. Deem insisted on cleaning it up and Kitten's wife, Marigold, silently handed him a broom and dust pan. Kitten was unhappy about the new dent in the wood floor. "A touch with the iron and it will be gone," she said soothingly,"worse things happen in love and war." "Yes, they do," Kitten replied. "It won't happen again, will it?" Deem said it would not.\par
\par
"We don't have fireworks around here, and we avoid loud, sudden noises," Marigold tells Deem. Kitten looks out of a Higgins boat at a tropical shore ahead, that shore revealing shattered palm trees between the explosions from sixteen inch shells.  Then he is back.\par
\par
At breakfast  Kitten asked him "simple" questions before his fellow elder Dennis Opp arrived to grill him. Kitten stated again that he was determined to see this thing through, 'this' being a demonstration that Deem was the wrong candidate. He also wanted to be fair to everyone. The facts seemed to be lining up against Deem, to be blunt. Did Deem believe the Apostles' Creed and the 66 books of the Bible? Yes. What about the five Solas? Yes.  Was he an Arminian or a Calvinist? Neither - he was an Epper. It's a both-and and a neither.  Did he pray the Lord's prayer? Did he believe in church discipline? Yes he did. Kitten got on him about being single, but in the end Kitten was satisfied. There was more here than he had expected. \par
\par
You work out? Doesn't look like it. Tell you what.  I'll get you set up with Mike - he used to train DI's on how to fight hand-to-hand, and then he was at Quantico and somewhere else, teaching.  He will be your personal trainer.  You need to muscle up in this town.  It's bearing, son.  You understand?  If you stick around, he will get you in the best shape of your life. \par
\par
His dad and I go back to Okinawa.  He was one of my boys there - he showed up as a green as they come, a real boot, half trained like they were sending them.  He was a good man.  But he was sent back after only a couple of weeks on medical and never returned.  He looked me up after the war and got me a job that lasted two whole years as a night watchman at his office.  He had to let me go for fighting and drinking on the job.  That was before Korea.  Then, when Korea was over, the same thing and the same result.  He was a good man, taking care of me like that.  I saved his life and then he saved mine.  He talked me into going back into the Corps for Korea.  Nothing else worked for me, ever, except the Marines.  We buried Bob a few years back. Lung cancer from all those coffin nails they used to pass out to us for free.  I would have been a pall bearer but I can't carry much of anything anymore.  We used to go out drinking, Bob and me, and start bar fights.  Those were the days.  He came to Nicholls a few years back and I think we were drunk for a week straight until the Missus threw him out of the house.  He's buried in Arlington, right proper.  I visited his grave. Semper Fi. You're pretty skinny for a Marine.\par
\par
I never was a Marine.\par
\par
What the f are you doing in my house then?\par
\par
I am the pastoral candidate.\par
\par
Oh yeah, Sorry. Sorry about all that. And the Missus taught me to say F instead of the whole word, because it is polite and all that.  I've cleaned up my mouth a lot. Yes, sir. I guess I can tell you that because you are a pastor.\par
\par
I am a candidate, not yet the pastor.\par
\par
That's right.  And I don't like you.  I remember now.  We want a real leader, not some wimp candidate.  You are the wimp candidate.  I remember. Failure at everything you do, and all that.\par
\par
I've succeeded at a lot.  And God counts faithfulness, not success.  Or do you think every Marine who died in combat is a loser?\par
\par
Oh, no.  I would never talk that way. No, sir.\par
\par
I've overcome some obstacles.  I understand what it means to fail. I think that makes me a more compassionate person.  \par
\par
Kitten tells him if he goes to the Ranch to stay out of Snake Woods. \lang9 Kitten tells of 1947 attempt on Snake Woods with a flamethrower and Marine vets - they withdrew. They would have needed more flame throwers - they only had one, and they could only have it for a short time.  Many painful, nasty, later infected bug bites and the snakes kept coming. They had to walk on bones, some human, when they got into the woods - the flames attracted the bugs and the snakes.   There was the rotting smell of burnt and decaying flesh - it reminded Kitten of Okinawa - they came to the edge of a cliff and looked down into a ravine that seemed to be full of snakes and those flies over it. There was no way down from where they were and they had to flame a path out of there because otherwise they would have been surrounded by snakes.  No one got bit by a snake, but no one wanted to go back, either. And several got sick from the bug bites. There was also a crazy man who tried to interfere with them - it seemed like he was possessed, or something: warning them to stay out.  They were afraid he would get hurt. He was there when they came and after they left. No idea who he was. The flies seemed to breed and hover over the shallow, slimy waters just east of Snake Woods. There were biiting gnats as well as horseflies. But both were very aggressive.\par
\par
=================\par
\par
"Hawthorne," Kitten suddenly blurted out,"Hawthorne. That was his name."\par
"Who?"  \par
"Two pastors ago. Hawthorne. He didn't last.  He was here around three months or so. All he wanted to do was pray.  He had prayer meetings all the time and he was praying with people, working on getting everyone into prayer groups and prayer partners."\par
"What happened?"\par
"Well, he was also a crybaby. Upset at all the sin in town. People not in love with God."\par
"And?"\par
"The session let him go. We didn't want a crybaby, and we have enough prayer around here without some pastor promoting it."  Kitten glanced significantly at Deem. He hoped he got the message. It wasn't Kitten's fault if that was not clear enough.\par
\par
================== \lang1033\par
\par
\par
Conversation with Dennis Opp on Thursday morning.  Thursday afternoon Deem wandered the town. Yes, the police had been notified and he would not be picked up for loitering. Whiggins sort of hangs around just out of the reach of normal speech but close enough that Deem was able to call or he could come if necessary. Exhausted, he took the wrong turn and finds himself lost on a country road.  He fell asleep and is arrested by a Deputy.  He is freed by Kitten and Aaron.  He then received a phone call from the bishop, who seemed to know all his movements.  The other two candidates are no longer interested.  Deem was now the sole candidate.  The bishop was going to inform the Session next, but Deem was asked to keep it quiet.  He did.  \par
\par
Thursday afternoon Deem was told to wander around and meet people, some of whom would seek him out.  \par
\par
\lang9 Deem met a.k.a. "Baptist Bob" Stockwood, who moved to Nicholls from the Ranch to start a Baptist church that never happened. because Pastor Smit had been very effective at collecting all the Protestants into the Epper church, but now there might be a chance.  To support himself, he started a car wash, was successful, and held classes for people. It is derisively referred to as "Brother Bob's Baptist Seminary and Car Wash."  He attended church elsewhere.  Deem, to his own surprise, overcame suspicions and befriended him (to some criticism from clannish Eppers), although Bob never joined the Eppers. Just a Christian brother, a friend outside the congregation, and Deem appreciated that.  Neither is out to convert the other.  Friendship without agenda. \cf4\lang1033 Is this worth being here? Why?  If I am asking, does that tell me the answer?  Amusing, but worth while?? Yes: illustrates that non-Epper Christians exist in Nicholls and are fellow travellers with Deem and company. Imparts some realism.  Also explains, maybe, to some extent, why there are no other Protestant churches in Nicholls - Pastor Smit's legacy is still strong.\cf0   \cf1 Spelling of Smit/Schmidt/ etc is inconsistent. Choose one.  \cf0 Baptist Bob was also considering a tempting offer from Johnson Bank to allow "professional management" to run the car wash: Bob would get the profits, and, of course, pay a fee for management and all maintenance costs.  After thinking it over and talking it over with his own pastor, he had just decided to decline, but he thought there may be repercussions in the community.  There were no outright threats, just a feeling that declining the offer was not something that would please some powerful people. \par
\par
Whiggins, cleaned up, sort of hovered in the background not too far from Deem. Crazy Harry saw his prey, but Whiggins stood between him and Deem. Crazy Harry backed off with palms out and up, empty, and walked off. \par
\par
\lang9 Deem encounters someone who prompts Deem to ask why it seems you view every relationship as a boxing match - human relationships are more than a \tab fight or competition - that's the way life is, he is told. Deem is sorry for him.  Man does not know how to handle this perceived attack.\f1\par
\f0\lang1033\par
\cf4 We also encounter Mildred Spass, the eternal and seemingly eternally ancient Postmaster of Nicholls, who is determined that no piece of mail should go out the same day it comes into the PO and that any ambiguous or unclear address, of which most are, needs to be investigated before the mail is delivered.  People frequently must come into the PO and show identification and proof of residency at an address to receive mail. She is especially adept at keeping packages from being delivered.  Typically a package will require 3 forms of ID and proof of residency before she will reluctantly hand it over.  You get a card saying We have mail we think may be yours. Please come in. And she moves slowly.  There is a waiting room full of people with numbers, and if you are not served one day, you must come back the next, as her office hours are over promptly at 4 PM.  There is no UPS or Fedex in town, as those are not locally owned and are chains, both of which are strikes against Nicholls.  Some people maintain post office boxes out of town. Both Adrian and Archie have more Nicholls related boxes than are in those towns.  \cf0\par
}
 