{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 0600 Thursday July 7, 2016 Nicholls\b0\par
\par
Deem groaned and looked at the clock: 0600. The knocking that had woken him up persisted.\par
"Yes?" he groaned and looked at the door.\par
Marigold's voice came through it:"Good morning, sir! Breakfast is on the table, what's left, anyway, as I am about to clear the table. Would you like some? I am sure you are hungry."\par
"Yeah, sure," Deem said, "Ma'am", he added. He sat up and stood, slowly.  He felt like he had had three hours sleep and could use another eight. He ran his hand through his hair and over his unshaven face. He made sure his pajamas and t-shirt were proper and opened the door, but Marigold was gone.\par
Downstairs there was one plate holding three now-cool pancakes, a cold cup of coffee and a cold boiled egg on a separate plate. It was evident that the Pfingsters had eaten a long time ago. Was all the food around here served cold?\par
"Good morning," Mr. Pfingster said from the living room. He was clean-shaven, squared-away and briskly put his newspaper down  -  the with a snap that communicated  "sleeping the day away..."  to Deem, as he sprang from his chair.  "It's the \i Globe\i0 ," Elder Pfingster explained, "they stopped printing the \i Chevron\i0  last year.   It's online now. Whatever that means. Some people want the internet here.  We have always done just fine without it. But times change. The world has moved on more than we in Nicholls know.  The Corps seems to have the internet now. If it is good enough for the Corps, it is good enough for us.  But try as hard as I might I can't see Chesty Puller with a computer. No, sir. I think it makes someone do more butt-duty than real work, if you ask me."\par
Deem said grace silently and picked up his fork to tackle the pancakes. There were blueberries in them. Mr. Pfingster suddenly pulled a chair up next to Deem and faced his ear.\par
"You go ahead and eat. You're hungry.  And company's coming, another elder to see you, so there's no time for a leisurely breakfast.  Don't look at me. Don't look at me. Now listen up. I mean to ask you some questions, see where you are at on some theological issues. Now is a good time. Elder Opp will be here at 0800 to ask you some more questions of concern. He is one of our three judges in this county and he will ask you questions about stuff at a level I cannot, being real smart and educated and so forth.  I am just a dumb Marine.  I don't know Greek. I was not raised Epper.  Marigold was, but not me.   So I need simple explanations.  You have to explain it to me slowly. You understand? Now, I reviewed your application. I have some questions. Nod if you agree. You go ahead and eat. I promise not to eat your breakfast. Or you. Is that fine with you? I'm trying to be nice here."\par
Deem nodded. He was half way through the first pancake. They were perfect. He wished he had time to really enjoy them. He wondered if he should sit at attention or something and bark out "YES SIR!" at appropriate points. \par
"Do you fully subscribe to the Statement of Faith without reservation?" Deem nodded. \par
"Good. That saves some time. You mean you have no objections, hesitations or concerns or questions about any article, any paragraph, any sentence, or any clause in either its particular meaning or in its association with anything else, whether detailed or in totality, including all the nuances?"\par
Deem had thought that one through and had expected it, it being one of the standard questions for licensure.  Elder Pfingster was underselling himself.  Not a dumb Marine.  A candidate was likely to have objections, hesitations, and concerns and questions.  It was rather expected, and anticipated, as it indicated a strong intellect and depth could be demonstrated by justifying a position that deviated somewhat from standard, but not too far.  Ordination boards delighted in the give and take of a forceful discussion and opinions that were within bounds but well thought out and defended in depth. You were expected to take a position somewhere that was different from the standard and rigorously defend the Gospel as you understood it.  But however he had tried, Deem had never been able to come up with anything that bothered him about the Statement of Faith.  When he had first read it, it had been a brilliant summary of theology, and with time he had appreciated it more.  He said so. \par
"Hmmm," Elder Pfingster said, in a way that Deem got the impression the old man - correction, the elder - was deeply disappointed that he was neither a heretic nor possessing a strong intellect. "That will make things easy." He sounded like he had hoped for a battle.\par
"As you know, our polity allows a church to range from nearly congregational to nearly fully episcopal. Do you agree that a strong elder board is an effective and almost mandatory need in a well-run congregation?"\par
This was ground more to Deem's liking. His 'B- with reservations' in pastoral theology had kept him in school, pushing his GPA just past the point for mandatory expulsion for poor academic expulsion.  He chewed, swallowed, and said, "There are churches where the pastor is exceptionally effective and the elders aren't, and churches where the church functioned well almost in spite of their elders, and churches where the elders are effective and the pastor is not." He shook his head. "The third case - fourth case,excuse me - is where the pastor is shown the door, if the elders are indeed effective.  I tend to think that may be the case here."\par
Elder Pfingster replied, "Hopefully you do not think you are exercising the gift of prophecy there.  Kind of a smarmy answer in my view.  Sleazy would be a better answer with that last shot.   And I am not sure you have all the facts. Jumping to conclusions without all of them would be presumptuous, I would say. Sometime we will lay it out for you if it is necessary.  Let's just stick to the abstract, and leave the past and the future where they are, and focus on the present, or rather, the timeless.  Stay in the now."\par
That smarmy answer had been based on his discussion with the bishop, but Deem decided not to press it now. Obviously he had touched a raw nerve with the elder. \par
 "Next question.  In several places in Scripture it is mandated that one of the qualifications for an elder is that he be the husband of one wife, and that he have children.  A pastoral candidate should be evaluated based on how he handles his family.  Without wife or family, it is of course impossible to judge.  And a single pastor is accountable to no one, whereas a married pastor has a wife who is interested indeed in what he is doing. Caring for a wife and children brings on a depth and maturity in a man that is wonderful preparation for the pastorate. Without that, it is doubtful that a man is called, or if called, is ready. If you make it through to Sunday, you can expect this question repeatedly. Elder Opp will approach it more deeply than I can."\par
Suddenly and unexpectedly Deem's mind was filled with a vivid picture of Sarah smiling at him, a picture from the past.  He had wooed her in college, he had bought a ring that last semester,  they had met each others' parents, who had approved of the match, and then he had told her he had definitely decided on seminary.  She did not want to be the wife of a pastor, so that ended that, and did so in an evasive and time consuming manner that had caused him frustration and he had had to work through resentment at what he had seen as duplicity.  A wave of disappointment had swept over him. She had been the one, he thought.  He did not know if he could ever love anyone else.  He had not even dated after that. It had left all feelings of romance and affection about as near as the surface of the moon: sun blasted, cratered, colorless, airless, and struck without mercy or defense by every rock that came along. It still stung.  It was recent, he had some anger he needed to control, and, once more, forgive her, and himself, and God, innocent or guilty, he was not the judge, and let it go.  He did this out of habit, processing it swiftly and efficiently as he had trained himself to do. The past was the past. Forget the past, press on into the high calling.\par
After a pause he managed a reply. "Well, Paul was free to not take a wife with him.  We see that he was effective."\par
"He was an apostle, not a pastor, not an elder, not a presbyter. Not a bishop.  I would avoid comparing yourself to the great apostle.  Such smacks of spiritual pride.  Were you blinded for three days? Shipwrecked? Whipped? Did you undergo what he suffered for the Name?"\par
Were these people always like this?  Deem had gone through some troubles.  He had looked at Paul and David as his great examples in Scripture, and they always made him feel like his own troubles, no matter how painful, were extremely small.  Jeremiah and Daniel also stood in that Abrahamic company, that 'cloud of witnesses' who underwent troubles for the King. Deeme took all the responsibility for the failure with Sarah - he should have made his intentions clearer earlier, and guarded his heart and mind better.  But there were a lot of other things, some of which were ignomonious.  Perhaps it was hard for her, too, as his former pastor had pointed out. \par
"No," he said softly, "I am not in the same league. I did not mean to imply I was. But don't you think a single man can be a pastor? Don't you put any value on continence and note the high value that same Paul put on celibacy?"\par
"I note it.  Celibacy has its place, but that place is clearly not the pastorate.  You can see I have my reservations for pastors, on solid Scriptural grounds..  We see the distortions that have crept into the Catholic system and the ensuing scandals.  That church forced priests to divorce.  Men forced to remain unmarried who did not and do not have the gift of celibacy.  The spiritual pride and disdain the celibate have for the married, a sense of innate superiority rather than humility. A poor example to the congregation, what with having no family to model, and no time, no balance of work and life.   And I am concerned about the young women of the congregation and the idea of an eligible pastor - there would be all sorts of competitions, this would be a spring of gossip and temptation to all sorts of unholy catty behavior among them.  You might fall into traps unawares. And if you courted a woman of the congregation and then broke up, it would be very, very awkward."\par
"That has been discussed.  Single pastors do not date women in the congregation - it is construed as a conflict of interest.  You do know that the bishop approves of me as a candidate, single though I am, and there are single pastors among us. Pastors who have never married, as well as widowers.  Really, it depends on your goal.  If your goal in marriage is to honor the Lord, well and good, if it is only to satisfy the flesh, bad.  Likewise someone can remain single because he just wants to live for himself, because he is a narcisst, or unstable. One can be lax - morally, I mean, in the technical sense - and single, or lax and married. In all cases our goal is to please the Lord. Some are called to the one, some to the other. And the celibate should not condemn the married for being married, nor the married condemn the celibate for the gift of celibacy."\par
"I certainly respect the bishop, and I am free to respectfully disagree with the bishop on this.  You have said it well.  Given the point for the moment, how will you be able to find a wife?   Nicholls is, well, Nicholls.  Small town in an underpopulated county.  Most of the girls here go for the Marines.  Most marry the summer after high school.  Or they move away for college and do not return. So do you think you have the gift of celibacy? Pardon the intrusive questioning, which probably is abrasive to some degree,  but we need to know such things because we as elders are frank and open with each other.  I would expect you to ask me penetrating questions as well.  Even abrasive questions at time.  And you should expect answers, and if I do not answer, call me on it."\par
"Yes, I would do that.  To some degree, you are rather intimidating."\par
"I certainly hope so.  I would not want anyone to think I am a carpet."\par
  But the thought of questioning, of challenging Julius Pfingster on anything was not a pleasant one.  But it would be his duty.  They would be in this together, and elders and pastors were not to have secrets from each other.  They were to speak into each others' lives, and to do that, they needed to know each other extremely well. That did not need to be said now.\par
"God will provide," Deem smiled, "If the Lord wants me to have a wife, he will issue me one."\par
For the first time, Deem heard Julius Pfingster laugh. It was a deep and joyous and reserved laughter. "That's good, son. I mean Mr. Futz."  There was a note of respect, even affection, in there.\par
"'Son, when the Marine Corps wants you to have a wife, you will be issued one.'" \par
Deem looked blank.\par
"\cf1 That's a Chesty Puller quote.  Chesty Puller? Lieutenant General Lewis B. Puller?"\par
Deem still looked blank.\par
"How the blank do you NOT know who Chesty Puller is? " Elder Pfingster drew back. "Well. You are not a Marine.  We decided we did not want a Marine. And we will not turn you into one, tempting as it may well be.  For us, it is a strong temptation to have a pastor in our own image.  There are many fine pastors who come out of the Marines, but lately we found that could be destructive, frankly: we got a Saul, a king after our own image.  We sought the wrong treasure.  But how the - how the - how do you not know who Chesty Puller was?"\par
Deem shrugged.\par
"Well, my mission is not to fill you up with the lore of the Corps. \cf0 Say, your plate is empty, as is your coffee cup. Finished?"\par
Deem nodded. \par
"We're not done.  You get ready.  We'll save the rest for when Elder Opp arrives."\par
Deem was tying his tie when Mr. Pfingster knocked politely on his bedroom door. It was 0745 by the clock. "Good morning, again," Deem said.\par
"May I? You don't have much time." asked Mr. Pfingster, pointing to the unmade bed. Deem, adjusting his tie, nodded. He barely had time to breathe in and out and the bed was made sharply, and the blanket really did look like you could bounce a quarter on it.\par
"You still have it," he said to his host.\par
"Teach your grandma."  Mr. Pfingster looked around the room but said nothing.  Deem was aware he was not particularly neat in general, and had slept little and was rushing. He kicked his pajamas under the bed with his foot.  Mr. Pfingster's face went blank and he went out into the hall and waited.\par
Deem anticipated a brownwater shower,but to his relief it was clear water.  Separate water systems or something.  \par
 At 0757 they went down the stairs.    \par
Elder Opp was already sitting  in the living room, in one of the two high-backed chairs opposite the couch. He checked his watch. Deem was shown where to sit, on the couch, with the two elders opposite.  Yesterday Elder Opp had been silent, sitting in the second row. He was larger and younger than Elder Pfingster, but both had the same hair, or would, except that Elder Opp had only a band of hair below the ears, being bald, and the same beards. The same frowns.  Deem noted both had put on ties for this discussion, which made Deem think there was some hope left. But then it might have been simply a professional suit in the case of Elder Opp, who might be going in to work after this. There was also a younger man sitting on one of the chairs from the dining room, his briefcase on his lap as a table, pen ready on a pad of legal paper. He also was wearing a suit.\par
"Who - what is that?" Deem asked.  There was a large black and white hog snuffling the floor. It looked up at Deem at this and grunted.\par
"That's Attila the Hog. Never mind him.  He's friendly. Say hello, Attila. Attila, this is Deem." \par
"Hello, Attila," Deem said.  He tended to like animals, but it wasn't always mutual. Attila looked briefly in Deem's direction, blinked, and looked out the window.\par
"He goes with me," Elder Opp stated. "Just ignore him or he may climb into your lap."\par
 Attila grunted and with a heavy thump he laid down on his stomach and promptly fell asleep on the carpet between the two elders.   \par
Elder Opp looked at Deem for a minute, then glanced at Elder Pfingster, then back at Deem.\par
"Elder Opp, this is Deem Futz, candidate for pastor. You know his credentials. Mr. Futz, this is Elder Opp. He sits on the Seminary Board  of the instution you were just graduated from - on the Doctrinal Committee, in fact, as well as on Policies.  He is also a retired JAG officer, who served in the Navy Yard, as well has having been caught on the ground at a place called Khe Sanh  in Vietnam, where he led Marines in combat until relieved, as an officer.  Unlike other services, every Marine is a rifleman, and those in the JAG are also line officers.  He was awarded the Purple Heart and the-"\par
"Let's skip my biography, shall we?" interjected Elder Opp. \par
Elder Pfingster nodded. "Mr. Futz, understand that Elder Opp also advises the denomination on patristics.  He is currently serving the county as a justice of the peace."\par
Deem realized this was looking very formal. Perhaps worse than the interview would have been.\par
Elder Opp gestured at the other man. "This is my amanuensis. He will not participate in the discussion, but only take notes."  Deem nodded at the man, a clean-cut, weathered type in his thirties, who neither introduced himself nor made eye contact.  This was not surprising: many elders had assistants who took a background role, as if they were not even there.   The man said not a word.\par
 So this was a formal discussion. The amanuensis had probably been dismissed yesterday and the elders waited around without him, meaning they had given up on interviewing him then.  But why this now?  Would he be meeting all the elders like this?  Deem knew that much of what he had experienced had been elevated to being discussed by the board of directors.  Probably everything he had gone through was known to Mr. Opp.  He had a sense of being laid bare to the deepest corner of his being, with no place to hide.  Scrutinized. Found wanting. Totally inadequate.  But wasn't that how Isaiah and Jeremiah had felt when God had called them? Perhaps this was more normal than he had thought.\par
Still, Deem's heart sank for a second.  He had had some troubles in seminary, and no doubt his nam had come before the Policies Committee several times.  Then Deem realized that if that was all known, and he was still here, none of that was an issue. Known, and passed over. He relaxed a little. \par
"We need to get to know you better.  We are checking into what happened yesterday, and I fear your welcome wasn't one.  A warm welcome, to be lucid.   If you were responsible for being late, it is one thing. But we are not going to rush to conclusions." Here he glanced at Mr. Pfingster, and then turned to Deem. "We are waiting to hear back from the bishop. We will give you the benefit of the doubt."\par
"We would have liked to all have gotten together with you, as a group, which is not going to work due to time constraints, but I think we will be able to meet with you more privately. Really, we need to get to know you a little bit. More than that, frankly. Selecting a pastor is an important and most serious duty.  We don't have time for niceties, frankly.  And tyypically we cut to the chase around here.  You can expect full candor, and we expect the same. We do not have any doubts there, it is just to lay out the ground rules." Mr. Opp sipped his coffee. Somehow they each had a cup of coffee and a coaster, and a place to put said.  Deem had missed its entrance, somehow. He recalled Marigold had been in and out, and had said she was going to weed the garden while it was early.  There had been no weeds Deem could see through the kitchen window, but there it was. And there was a cup of coffee on a coaster in front of Deem. Black, like he liked it.  He sipped it: hot but not too hot to drink.\par
"We know your academics.  We know the troubles and difficulties you had going through seminary, and your current difficulties.  What stands out is that you do not give up. That is not something that can be bought, taught or earned.  Inner resolution is priceless, and we see that in you.  Hopefully you have other qualities that will overcome your faults: we will be looking at you to determine if you are the man we hope you are.  Now then, we all have concerns. Things we want to do.  The current expression is to have a bucket list: a list of things we would like to do before we kick the bucket, I suppose.  Some want to climb Mount Everest. Others want to collect sea shells on quiet beaches.  Some want to write the Great American Novel. Some, to get rich. Mr. Futz, what is the goal of your life?"  Elder Opp asked it softly.  Deem had a feeling, though, that he could cut through any banal, misleading or dishonest answer, and that anything less than the exact truth would be detected.\par
"Why, to love God and enjoy Him forever.  All else is foolishness."  in that moment Deem felt like it was not enough, that he would never have enough of an answer for this man.  But every other desire had been burned out of him. His purpose here was to hear God, to find His voice, His direction, and please Him with gracious and grafetful obedience.  Deem was sure of that.  There was no boasting in it, no self-satisfaction.  It was just fact. There was no other purpose to his life, if he examined himself in all honesty.\par
"Straight out of the catechism," Elder Opp smiled.  Deem realized he was not talking to an enemy.  Do you know who wrote "we state nothing to be useful but what will help us to the blessing of eternal life; certainly not that which will help us enjoy merely the present time. Nor do we recognize any advantages in opportunities and in the wealth of earthly goods, but consider them as disadvantages if not put aside, and to be looked on as a burden, when we have them, rather than as a loss when expended."\par
"Ambrose of Milan, I think in Book 1, Chapter 8, "On the Duties of the Clergy".\par
"Very good.  I prefer to call it \i De Officiis Ministorum\i0 . But I think you will find it is Chapter 9.  And the Latin is better than the translations.  How is your Latin?"\par
"Not very good." That was an overstatement. "Terrible." He had had one course his freshman year of high school. "Like a foreign language," he ended lamely. That was terrible. Well, let's get the stupidity out in the open.  Surely they had looked at his transcript.  He had not taken any courses that had required Latin.\par
In the silence the hog grunted in his sleep and rolled on his side. His trotters moved like he was walking. Hogs sleep walk, thought Deem.\par
"Your Dutch?"\par
"I have none."\par
"Your Greek and Hebrew?"\par
"I barely passed the classes.  It was a question as to whether I would continue."\par
"Yes, I recall some discussions we had.  But here we are." Elder Opp said it reassuringly.\par
"Your German? French? Italian? Spanish?" \par
"Likewise. I have difficulty with foreign languages."\par
Elder Opp did not look happy. "So how can you be familiar with \i the Epper Constitutions\i0 ?"\par
Deem did not know what to say. The \i Epper Consitutions \i0  were the founding documents of the Episcopal Presbyterian governmental system, which had been accepted in 1711 by all Eppers.  It had been agreed then to never translate, update, harmonize or further comment on any part of it but to allow it to stand as is and never be changed. The problem was parts of it were in Koine Greek, some in Latin, Dutch, Hebrew, Aramaic, Russian and German, sometimes in obscure and rustic dialects, particulary the Russian articles.  Since it was absolutely necessary to run Epper settlements correctly, administrators and bishops were required to study those languages sufficiently to read the documents.  Deem's professors had hinted around the edges at times, and he was under the impression that some areas of Epper government were repeatedly treated, with contradictions,  and that there are holes, but this is the last time Eppers agreed on anything and it stands as it is.   Finally Deem replied, "It is what it is. But the Book of Church Order is available in English.  It defers, of course, to the Epper Constitutions, even as both defer to the Scriptures."   \par
"And the Affirmations and Condemnations?"  These were statements in the formula "We affirm... and we condemn..." written so that there was only a one-word or one phrase difference between the two sentences.\par
"I have studied them, but really have not got past PartOne: 'We affirm salvation is by the grace of Christ alone, we deny that salvation is by the grace of Christ with any other.' That, I think is the last statement I really followed."\par
"I see.  I am not boasting but to demonstrate something.  I want you to understand that you are not dealing here with uneducated rustics here, with a bunch of gun-toting war-mongering  knuckle-dragging idiots.  Don't let any possible prejudice deceive you." Had his eye looked at Elder Pfingster while he said most of that, and had Elder Pfingster slightly reacted as if provoked? Surely not.\par
From the look in his eye Deem thought very little deceived Elder Opp. A phrase close to that had passed through his mind yesterday afternoon.  Nothing would be hidden where he looked.   There was a look of authority and a competence about Elder Opp that hung about him, somehow.  He could be formidable. He \i was\i0  formidable.\par
"Now we come to the question of you being single." Deem realized it was more complex than that.  The situation he was in, this conversation.  Was this being staged for the benefit of Mr. Pfingster? No.  And Deem needed to focus.  They were seeking to determine the Lord's will - something Deem needed to focus on as well.  Were they teasing each other subtly? They had known each other a long time - how could he pick up on those signals?\par
"He said that if the Lord wants him to have a wife, he will issue him one." Mr. Pfingster stated with some amusement.\par
Elder Opp frowned. "This is hardly the time for levity.  These are serious and sober matters we must examine.  It is not the time for laxity or frivolity." But his eyes were twinkling. How was Deem supposed to read this?\par
"I do not think he was being flippant - I read it as a matter of trusting the Lord." Elder Pfingster looked almost smug, if an elder could be accused of such.\par
Elder Opp considered this, looked at them both. "Well, then, it was clever. at least. You must be an admirer of Chesty Puller, then."\par
The color in Deem's cheeks rose. "Before this morning, I never heard of him."\par
Elder Opp looked astonished.   \par
"I see we have a comedian for a candidate," stated Elder Opp. He paused for a minute. "Humor has its place. It brings perspective, lightens the heart, inspires courage and confidence - all desirable. And a preacher who can inject a little humor appropriately is better for it. Well. Since we are discussing marriage, let's begin with your understanding of 1 Corinthians 7, shall we?"\par
Elder Opp asked basically the same questions as had had already been given, but far more technically, and Elder Pfingster noted all possible inconsistencies and asked him for an explanation on anything that he said even slightly differently. Both elders were highly intelligent and very knowledgeable both in church polity and Scripture.  Elder Opp made references to the early church fathers, to the Cappadocians, to Augustine, Ambrose, Cyril of Alexandria, as well as Tertullian, Jerome, Thomas Aquinas, Duns Scotus, Calvin, Luther, Zwingli, Bollinger, Beza, Arminius, Grotius, Socinus  and many, others. It was clear he read them in Greek and Latin fluently, and that it was not a point of pride but rather to know what God was saying through them.  His expertise was not a treasure but a tool to a greater end.  It was not surprising, either, because there was a strong strain within the Epper movement that children should learn Greek and many Epper high school graduates could pick up anything in Gregory Nazienzen and translate it within seconds after reading it. Elder Opp was more polite and it was not long before Deem had a sense he was on Deem's side.  At times it was more of a debate between the two elders with Deem being the ping pong ball between them. It was like a cross examination or like an oral final. At times the amanuensis would be asked to read something back he had written earlier, and Deem was asked to reconcile a perceived discrepency.  Elder Opp knew theology, Greek and history far better than Deem.  And Elder Pfingster had a better memory for their conversations than Deem did.  \par
"What are they teaching now about Deissmann and the papyri?\par
"You mean Adolf Deissmann, the discoverer of the Greek manuscripts in Egypt?"\par
"Yes, the same. Exactly.  I know what they are supposed to be teaching. What were you taught regarding Deissmann?"\par
Deem thought.  "I think there was about twenty minutes or so on him, in one course. How the common Koine was indeed Common."\par
"You see, that is a change.  Ten years ago you would have heard repeatedly about how the papyri were an affront to the Language of the Holy Ghost, the special speech He created specifically and uniquely for the New Testament. Wel, that is a gross oversmplification, but some would say still accurate.  Did you hear anything along those lines?"\par
"Not at all. Not that I remember."\par
"It has become clear to many, over the years, that our stand against the papyri - What lexicon did you use?"\par
"Principally? BDAG.  Third Edition."\par
"Not Thayer? That is amazing. And the Third? That is just out, I believe. Remarkable they have moved on from Thayer.  Truly remarkable. I had not heard.  But then, I had not asked, either."\par
"Well, the man was a Unitarian. And he was pre-papyri."\par
"Yes, indeed. the Stubborn Dutch are changing.  Did van der Pol teach you Greek?" The hog grunted as if in approval.  He had woken up and was currently sniffing Elder Pfingster's shoes.\par
"He taught one seminar for advanced Greek. I am afraid I missed it.  You know he retired."\par
"Yes.  In his later years he took on a more, shall we say, polemical approach.  And many followed him.  You missed it, you say.  More proper to say that due to your academic standing you were not allowed to take it.  I am not sure, though, that I would put it any other way - so, ok.  Perhaps ' I did not take it' would have been better.  Or perhaps you are saying it accurately: you would have liked to take it, and missed the chance. So, again, ok."\par
"Well, the attitude now is that the papyri help inform the meaning of Scripture."\par
"That is a remarkable change. Elder Pfingster, what do you say?"\par
"I say I wish I had had the opportunity to learn my Greek.  That is about it. I missed it." Deem did not miss the deliberate word choice.  \par
"There is still time, my friend."\par
"That's all right. I would probably do more damage than good to the language. Don't mind me."\par
"Yes...We are changing.  The Epper problem remains: we tired of the dispute between the Calvinists and the Arminians and formed our church separately.  We have never had a Luther or a Calvin, in fact, no one of renown. We have no central statement, some say no core. The Catholics have their pope and the Lutherans justification, the Reformed election, etc., but we seem to stand for, well, what do we stand for? What is the central feature of Epper theology?"\par
"We have stubbornness." That was Elder Pfingster.\par
"You are far from the first to make that observation. And here we have the most stubborn of candidates, in a good sense, as if that is the one thing we desire in a pastor. Some things are changing.  We are more open to the charismata and to ecumenism, even to regarding the Catholics as perhaps fellow-Christians, despite their outrages. We cannot choose whom Christ calls His own. What God has declared clean, we must regard so also. There seems to be a variety of beasts on the sheet lowered from heaven. Where we will end up, I do not know.  We had limits, we thought, but they have vanished, it seems.  We have the Word of God. That is enough."\par
"You regard Catholics as Christians? I am surprised at that," Deem blurted out,"that goes against our history and they have departed from Biblical justification and have introduced novelties doctrinally at the root of their system."\par
"I am aware of all that, more than you are, sir.  Despite their faults they follow Christ, or claim to. Despite our faults we follow Christ, or claim to.  We have much in common with them. I am not saying we should put aside our differences as if they were nothing, but rather consider how things are changing.  It has been five hundred years since the Reformation.  We cannot live in the past.  Nor am I in any way suggesting we join with Rome or condone their errors. But we have the same enemies in the world: secularism, materialism, radical Islam, militant socialism. I fear where this country may be headed.  There are political considerations.  And my fellow judges are both practicing Catholics, excellent men of impressive faith.  It is a complex situation. And one you will be involved in, as St.George's is the only other church in town, and as pastor you would need to work with them on our common interests. If you cannot do that, this can end right now."\par
Elder Opp was serious about this, Deem saw.\par
"That could take some getting used to," Elder Opp finally said.\par
Deem nodded. \par
They got into a discussion that only bears skimming over.  Deem found himself fielding questions like whether gnosticism had a role to play in the corruption towards mandatory clerical celibacy, and the influence of montanism on Augustine, and what problems the Orthodox church had with Augustinian theology. They got  deeper into a discussion of Titus 1 as well as 2 Timothy regarding early commentaries, textual variations.  Multiple elders. Presbyters. The evolution of the episcopate from the early model. The movement from presbyters to priests, sacramentatlism, the exact nature of Communion elements.  The balance and wisdom of ruling elders, protecting the congregation and the pastor. The twin dangers of clericalism and laicization. Laxity and overwork. Balance. Being \i enkrates\i0 : self-controlled and disciplined, from the Greek, as opposed to lax, which in Epper thought meant self-indulgent, lazy, undisciplines, carnal, earthly, and all manner of ills.  Roman corruption that led to the Reformation, and doctrinal woes, such as Noyes and his perfectionism, that led to lay carnalities. \par
"With all due respect, may I ask you how you call yourself \i enkrates\i0 ?"  Elder Opp asked.  Deem thought of his late arrival yesterday, and his "sleeping in" this morning.   \par
"With all due respect,  Elders, I do not think anyone should pass themselves on that. So I do not call myself \i enkrates\i0 ."\par
"That is a good answer."  He was silent for a minute. \par
"What do you think of the situation regarding the Ranch?"\par
"The Ranch- isn't that Jake Profim's so-called Refuge City? I didn't know it was still around."\par
"It is still around.  People in Nicholls tend to think it is a bunch of drugged-out hippies who have slapped the name of Christ on themselves, living in old trailers and basically starving to death. Not true in the least. But they do have a number of trailers."\par
Deem replied with an "Oh."  He really wished he had more to say, but there wasn't much that he knew. "And?"\par
"Well, we have had an \i interesting\i0  relationship with them out there.  Beings as they are fellow-Eppers, or ex-fellow-Eppers, or anyway the spiritual children of Jake Profim, there has been an interest, you might say, in what goes on out there, over the years.  But culturally? We are about as similar as people who embrace the Marine Corps ethos and those who decided to be "free spirits" or whatever can be.  It is a divide like you find in the Book of Acts between us, the Pharisees, if you will, and them, the hard-core partying Gentiles, if you will.  The point being that they want to come back into the Epper fold.   That is little known and not to be discussed with anyone not an elder for the present.  Under what circumstances they come in is uncertain, as some of their practices and beliefs would need to be examined.  You would be expected to take on the role of liaison pastor with them.  That is, you would be the local representative of the bishop to them, not officially their pastor, but in some ways acting very much like one.  You are neither a Marine nor a hippie, so you should be able to bridge the gap.  We want them to come back into the fold.  We want you to meet their elders - they have their own Session.  They call it the Council of Twelve, which strikes some of us as a tad arrogant. As an Epper I would expect you to condemn the charismata.  But we need a pastor who is a little more at liberty.  How do you feel about pastoring charismatics?"\par
Deem reddened. "I have had a few experiences - I mean, I don't talk in tongues, but God is not silent, and is free to overrule natural law at His pleasure. I am not a deist. He did not wind up the universe and let it do whatever.  I believe in providence, of course, which can include God's miraculous supply.  I would not be alive today without the miraculous, frankly. I think calling them 'charismatics' is unhelpful - the term is loaded."\par
"We really need someone who can both be acceptable to those who hold that all truth is propositional and those who emphasize experience.  We have some who reject all experience as emotionalism, and others who reject all doctrine as dead letter Christianity.  That is an exaggeration, of course, but it makes the point.  One of my concerns with the seminary at present, and in fact with Eppers in general, is a wholesale rejection of our own mystical theology. We are churning out doctrinarians.  We exhibit ourselves to the world in the work Christ has done in us, but we seem to think that flows from doctrine, not from the Holy Spirit.  True, He gave us doctrine, but He also is the gift of the Father and the Son. We desperately need someone who can unite both sides."\par
"I wrote a paper on that very subject," Deem chimed in, hoping to sound relevant.\par
"Yes, I have read it.  I seem to remember that you got a C minus on it, with an extensive critique."\par
"Yes," Deem admitted.  He wished the conversation was going some other direction.  The critique had included not only the professor's angry red pen everywhere, but a follow up one-on-one with the professor and the department head, and then with those two and the dean.  None of them had appreciated what he had written.  He was small minded. Underread. Underthought. Naive. Going in intellectually dangerous directions that required stern warnings and if it continued, action.  Many had been removed from the seminary, including professors.  It was, in the refrain so familiar to Deem, his last chance.  He had gone through finals expecting to be notified he would not be returning. But he was allowed to continue.\par
"I don't agree with the critique," Elder Opp said. "You made some valid points. I hope some of them can be developed - I can see the potential of some good fruit.  Do you stand by that paper?"\par
"Well, mainly I remember the critique."\par
"I really think you understand Bavinck and Kuyper.  Your rejection of Carl Henry was spot-on.  I think your quoting of Avery Cardinal Dulles' models was problematic for certain people - anytime you quote a Catholic theologian there, be prepared for fireworks - and I admire your understanding of Barth.  I wonder if your academic performance wasn't as more of an objection to what you were saying than the quality.  Frankly, I would enjoy reading some more of your papers, and I would encourage you to write."\par
"Just don't screw it up," Elder Pfingster added. But it did not seem all that whole-hearted.\par
 "Thank you.  We do have a rich history in mystical theology.  We know the truth in our obedience.  Propositions and praxis must meet in the life of the believer, or he will come apart at the seems. Anyway, that I what I was saying."\par
"Very good," Elder Opp said,"I think we can work with that."  But Elder Pfingster looked unhappy. Nonetheless he said nothing further.\par
There was a silence.  Somewhere in the house the hog was wandering.  And in here, there was the sound of the pen on the paper.  Deem was reminded that this discussion had the most important consequences for his career. They seemed to be expecting a response. "That would be very good." he finally managed to say.  Deem realized that with that statement, the position was his to lose. He now had the sure backing of three elders out of six.\par
He considered asking who the younger elder was, the one who sat beside him in the church yesterday, but something held him back. Somehow it would have made the experience pedestrian to bring it up now, and he had the feeling that elder didn't really want it discussed now.  If Deem was going to meet like this with all the elders, the time would come when that mystery would be resolved.\par
It was over.  Mr. Opp smiled approvingly. "You did well." Even Mr. Pfingster smiled and shook his hand. "Of course we did not cover everything, and that was just superficial, but I have some understanding of your mind now. I would like to sound you out on the Trinity and on justification.  Then there are the end-times, more on the charismata (doctrine and praxis), relations with the civil authorities, ecumenism, the list goes on." Mr. Opp sighed.\par
"Well done," Aaron said.\par
"Aaron! When did you get here?"\par
"I've been sitting here the whole time! I guess you didn't notice.  So...I am doing my job right." He laughed, and the two elders laughed with him.  \par
\cf1 There was a silence.  There was a click-click as Attila wandered  into the dining room, then the sound of him pushing chairs around, hoping for food on the floor.\par
\cf0 "Best you get a sidearm in this town. People will treat you right."\par
"A side arm, Mr.Opp?"\par
"Call me Dennis." They shook hands, again, Deem getting up and crossing over after he suddenly realized that the elder expected it.  Dennis also had a crutch leaning against his chair, that Deem newly noticed.  Dennis pulled out a pistol and showed it to Deem. \par
"Is that your new Glock 43?"  This came from the owner of the house.\par
"Yes, he said. \par
"Hah," said Mr. Pfingster, "It's just \cf1 a dinky little thing. Overpriced. Single stack. Gimme a 45 any day. I wouldn't be caught dead taking that from my rack to the head at night."\cf0\par
\cf1 "Nuts," said Dennis. He slid the chamber open, dropped out the magazine, and offered it to Deem to look at. You know how to shoot, right?"\par
Deem accepted it. "Ah, no. I have never handled a gun before."\par
"Weapon. Call it a weapon. Or a pistol.  Or a sidearm.  In this town don't talk about your gun."\par
"Obscene term here," explained Aaron.  Deem looked surprised. \par
The pistol was heavier than he would have expected. It looked well made.  He looked it over,  hefted it. With a smile he handed it back.  Instantly Dennis put the magazine back in, closed it and it disappeared.\par
"Kitten, this draws faster than a 45 and you can shoot repeatedly without having to re-aim."\par
Deem realized Mr. Pfingster had just been called "Kitten."  No reaction, either. And it was crystal clear.\par
"With a 45 you don't NEED to fire twice."  He pulled a pistol out from behind him.  It looked massive in comparison to the Glock.  Deem saw that part of the handle was brownish orange, but by then it was concealed again.\par
"Kitten?" \par
 "In Basic the DI one day told me I punch like a kitten. The name stuck. I went through the Marines as Kitten. It was better than "Julie". There was a fashion in this town when I was born to name boys after Roman generals. I still go by it. Deem, call me Kitten."\par
 "O-kay."\par
"Deem, never assume any weapon in this town in not loaded. You will find them everywhere. We have a rifle by each door. Kids are taught early not to mess with firearms and they grow up around them.  Do you shoot?"\par
Deem said no, as he nervously looked around.  There, by the door, on a rack, was what he thought was a lightweight machine gun. Weapon.\par
"Safety's on. Fully loaded. Never, ever, assume the safety is on.  Never point a weapon at anyone - some people here are really fast, and the sherriff will believe it's self defense.  If try to shoot someone , chances are he will fire first.  In fact, never take a weapon out in public unless you intend to shoot someone then and there.  There have been a few times people from out of town have tried to rob people - they are buried separately in the cemetary." \par
They were surprised to learn that he had never held, let alone shot, a firearm.\cf0  So Kitten took him out to the range and he learned to shoot, until lunch.  The range had many shooting positions.  The officials ran around with whistles.  There was a long list of rules at the entrance.\par
"Just don't mess with the range patrol,"  Kitten told him. "That's the number one rule. Number two would be to never, ever point your weapon at something you do not intend to shoot."\par
Deem thought he would die in the sun and the heat, let alone from a stray bullet. "Round", they called it.  He wore a cover, which he would previously had called a hat, but that was long ago and far away, in the ancient past of a day ago.  When they left his ears were ringing, despite the ear protection, and his right hand was mostly numb.  But he had actually hit the target. More than once.  Beyond that, there was only confusion: crowds, greeting people, the whistles and yells from the range patrol, which seemed to be in a foreign language, and the silence punctuated by pistol fire on the range they were on, and by rifle at the other range. Later Deem could only recall heat and light and noise and confusion. And the smell of gunpowder. And feeling tired.  He was running on strong coffee and adrenalin. Kitten was one of those types who slept six hours every thirty hours.  No sympathy there. \par
Lunch was much more pleasant.  Kitten was a lot older than he looked.  He had been at Chosin and had nearly frozen to death. Chosin Reservoir, North Korea. He was missing some toes. He told stories about Chesty Puller: "You are First Marines! All the communists in hell cannot stop you!" And they had sent a lot of communists to hell.  He was out on medical. Hated being cold. Could not stand air conditioning. In the winter the house was hot. Hot. He hated the sight of snow and ice. He had not been raised Epper, in fact, his parents did not practice any religion. That had been unusual in those days.  His dad had been at Belleau Wood, one of the original devil dogs.  After the Corps Kitten came back home bitter and drunk, woke up in a gutter one day and realized that he was making poor choices. Someone from the Epper church had taken him in.  He had gone to services, reviled everyone, finally broken down  and accepted Christ. Marigold put up with a lot. A lot. \par
She smiled. Today they would call it PTSD, but she has to live with it. He stayed away from fireworks. Cold. Orientals. He knew they were God's creatures but still...There was a Chinese Restaurant now in town, the Taiwan House, that had a sign in the window that they were from Taiwan, not Mainland China. They were not communists or gooks or chinks.  The sign was there because of some of his behavior back in the late 50s that he was not proud of. Things had been made right, but he still could not go in there.  And some of their kids had been made Marines.\par
After lunch they visited Vic's Firearms on Main Street.  Deem was corrected, again, to never refer to a firearm as a gun. It was a firearm.  He filled out the forms and was given a holster, in which he put a fake gun until the three day waiting period was over. It felt odd to walk down the street like it was the old west. He was told not to draw it.  In public you drew to practice at the range, or you drew to kill. You might show a friend your firearm, but it was bad taste to do that in public. And dangerous.  He was reminded of that at Vic's and by numerous other people.\par
And with Kitten, things had changed. People knew him as the candidate.  Somehow word had spread. "Padre," they said, and nodded. Despite Kitten's age - he looked a lot younger than he was - Deem struggled to keep up with his pace.  Sometimes he had to turn around and come back after a hundred feet, because someone wanted to talk to Deem for a minute, right there on the sidewalk.\par
They walked into the restaurant where Crazy Harry was sitting at his table. He frowned fiercely at Deem. Then he saw the holster, and he smiled suddenly and said, "Good afternoon. I hope you enjoy this  ---hole of a town."   Kitten told him to shut up.  And Harry took it and was silent, looking at the floor.\par
At a distance someone was playing Taps, followed by some rifle shots together. \par
"What's up with that?" Deem asked Kitten. \par
"David Bread came home. Private First Class Bread.  He served in Afghanistan.  He's being buried. You can expect to see a  lot of military funerals in this town. People will ask you to bury.  Pastors go to funerals."\par
"David Bread? Any relation to Lewis Bread?"\par
"His brother. PFC Bread.  I know about Lewis. Everyone does. He did not make the Corps. Pity when that happens.  But there is still room here for him here, although it may be hard for him to accept.  You talked to Lewis yesterday."\par
One thing Deem was realizing was that his conversations and movements seemed to be known to everyone in the town. Vic had known he was coming.  \par
"Well," said Kitten," Dinner is at 1800. Six o'clock.  So be there fifteen minutes before. I will cut you loose to explore this town."  And he did.  Deem realized that these conversations, somehow, were part of the interview.\par
A woman who had been looking at a store window turned and approached him. She was an attractive 50-year-old with long brown hair and very subdued makeup, reasonably dressed.\par
"Pastor Futz?"\par
"Well, I'm not ordained nor installed. For now, just call me Deem."\par
"Ok. I'm Darcy. Darcy Schneider. Darcy Profim Schneider?"  The name sounded familiar, like one from a long time ago.\par
"I'm not surprised you don't remember me. Daddy is-was Jake Profim."\par
Deem nodded. For a time Jake had had a column in a denominational newsletter on child raising. He often brought up amusing incidents involving his own children.\par
"Ooh, yess....Did you really get into the refrigerator and use ketchup for lipstick and mustard for eyeliner, and it got in your eyes and you cried?"\par
She laughed. "People remember that one. I was four at the time.  Yes.  Daddy was always truthful.  But that was a long time again. I want to talk to you about something.  I'm not trying to just be a name dropper...I was at the Ranch from the beginning..."\par
"Ok."\par
She started speaking all in a rush, as if she had thought it out and wanted to get it out but at the same time it was awkward and she would be glad when it was over. "Well, we moved here  - I mean to the Ranch, not Nicholls - when I was seven and I have lived there ever since. Well, until a few years ago.  I think they wanted to build heaven on earth, Utopia, or something. You know that it was a quasi- Epper church and the only difference between the Nicholls EPC and us was the charismata - and the too-too Marine cultural of Nicholls, you know, the More Marine than the Marine they have going on here - well the Eppers have now accepted that God heals today and there is sort of a reconciliation olive branch - the Ranch hasn't exactly managed to build Utopia, and I hear it is mostly empty now - and we are interested - some of us, that is - some of us are interested in seeing if you - I mean the new pastor, whoever, I know it is not official yet, so I'll say the new pastor, but people think you are going to get it, even if you are, pardon, me, a, a, a  civilian as far as the Marines go, but people at the Ranch are not Marine, but then they are not typical Americans either, just extreme another direction - but I would like to know your thoughts on bringing the two groups together. It would be like the Jews and the Gentiles in the book of Acts, you know, but look at the power of the church in the book of Acts when they were multiple cultures yet one church.  The church in town and the church out at the Ranch need each other, need to be one.  Pastor Hartmann was not someone we would have ever approached. Not that I am approaching you officially or formally, you understand, because I am not on the Council of Twelve, but then they don't ever make any decisions. They used to defer everything to Daddy and he tried to get them to make decisions but they said he had the anointing, so they couldn't, but he could, and they are stuck now waiting for a Messiah to come in. It's funny to tell you to be the Messiah, to be the apostle when you are this young kid who almost didn't make it out of seminary - I am sorry, one thing about this town is that it is overly blunt to the point of cruelty and you get used to it after a while, and another thing is there are no secrets, ever, but everyone knows everything about everyone else, even at the Ranch, so the Council will get back to me but they won't make any decisions. I know them. I haven't been out there in years, but I know them. They will defer to you.  The Ranch is dying, Pastor - Deem, all the energy has gone and those who are left are mainly elderly who only look back on the glory days of the charismatic revival.  I am interested in what God is doing today. So, please, see what you can do to help out the Ranch."\par
"That's two Utopias you mentioned. I think they established Nicholls to be one, and don't you want a third? Don't you want these two portions of the church to come together and ignite?"\par
"Yes, ignite. I want the fire of the Holy Ghost to come down and heal our land, to set our people free." She smiled, "Sometimes I talk like Daddy.  I miss him so, he was a good Daddy and a good pastor. People have said he was the sort of giant who comes once a generation, if at that, and the kind that, once they are gone, never seems to come again. He was a good man, no one has ever said anything against him, ever, except to kick him out of the denomination for praying for healing, and then he saw people healed when they prayed. I suppose I am a biased daughter, but there it is."\par
"I suppose there is bias there, but I have never heard anything said against him. The criticism was always carefully directed to his anticessationism, never to his character. May I ask you a question?"\par
"Certainly. Ask away."\par
"How does it feel to be his daughter? Do you feel any pressure to "take up the mantle"?"\par
"No. That's the funny thing.  We were raised to be who God wanted us to be.  Some people wanted us - my brothers and me - to inherit the Ranch, so to speak, to take up the mantle and preach and pray for healing.  I have never felt any need to do that.  I am a wife and a mother and I work part time as a nurse - I am an R.N. - and no one puts me on a pedestal. Well, sometimes there have been visitors who have thought, wow, Jake Prophet's daughter, but once they get to know me, bye bye pedestal."\par
"You said you thought the Ranch is dying.  Do you mean the glory days are over, or that its mission, its purpose for existence is completed?"\par
"You probably remember when six thousand people descended on the land. Six thousand. Daddy supported them for years with the ministry, but he had to go out on the road to do that, and to run the Ranch and to spend time with his family and to to go out on the road was too much. He would not compromise family. So he compromised the Ranch.  He put the Council of Twelve in place to make decisions and they wouldn't - I am not just rehearsing the past, it is today, too, because it is the same twelve men. Do you remember when that televangelist came down here and they installed him as the new apostle? And how that went over? And how, after many people had left and there were bitter feelings all around, they still wouldn't do anything? They are inert. Blech. I should not speak disrespectfully of elders. Sorry. It is frustrating.  And now, I don't have a vision of what they should be doing. I don't think anyone does. It is a dry and barren land under a hot sky. Deem was surpised, because the words were so close to his own thoughts and innermost feelings. Where was God in all this?  \par
"The people left out there are waiting on the Lord. They've been waiting for twenty years. And they don't know what they are waiting for or what it will look like when it comes, and they have no place else to go.  The land of waiting is now their home. They are comfortable sojourners, no longer pilgrims but settled in one place in their pilgramage. Those who are left are getting older and poorer.  People work, traveling up to Harrisonville or even into KC itself - I work in Harrisonville at a med clinic - or over to Clinton or down to Audrain.  Not much work in Nicholls, unless you are a veteran. And a Marine. They take care of their own.  Others? Well, we have to take care of ourselves.  Not to say they are not generous on occaision, it is just there is a bias."\par
"What do you think they should do? What do you think I should do? What do you think you should do?"\par
But she had no answer.\par
"I see.  So should I just sort of come out to the Ranch?"\par
"That is a good question.  I am not sure.  I think, if you come, you should visit the Council of Twelve.  They won't invite you, not because of disrespect, but because they think you should make the move.  Out of respect. Out of respect they won't invite you. It sounds crazy but there it is.  Then after you visit with them you can look around the Ranch. It's mostly abandoned trailers and some farm sheds, some cattle, a few fields that will actually grow something, and down at the southern end a wild area called Snake Woods that you want to stay away from. Even horses and cattle won't go near it.  There is a deadly rattlesnake in and around there.  Daddy used to talk about it, about how snakes live in the wild and disorganized parts of our lives, those parts we don't let conscience visit."\par
Deem remembered that.  Powerful illustrations about the devil as a golden-headed rattlesnake that would think it was an ambush predator but would chase and strike. You needed to speak truth, not lies.\par
"Not that we ever were snake handlers. We got some pretty crazy charismatics at times, but they all left long ago, before I left."\par
"So what do you do there now?"\par
"I am a wife and a mother and I work part time. That keeps me pretty busy. But I think you were talking about leadership.  Not much.  Mother is still over there, in charge of women's ministry and I am in a small close-knit Bible study here  with four other young mothers, all of whom find it hard to get together due to schedule but we still do what we can, even meeting on the web when we can't see each other.\par
"That keeps somone busy."\par
"Yep.  For a while my brother Mike was the Pastor, you know, but they were trying to make him into some kind of apostle, and he didn't want that.  He is pastoring an Epper church in California now.  You know he could not go to the Epper sem? He had to go elsewhere. He got a degree from Covenant Seminary in St.Louis, an MDiv, and off he went."\par
"What do you think of the idea there's treasure buried out there?"\par
She laughed. "If there was some, we would have found it. There is simply no place it could be. You should see the Ranch  and you would understand.  It's mostly  rock, a few trees. We have been broke so long- in the eighties someone was bit by a snake and died a quarter mile from Snake Woods - the treasure could not possibly be in there, because they would have gotten bit, you know? When they hid it. People have been hunting that treasure for over a hundred years.  Believe me, we would have found it.  I don't think it is anything more than a rumor old Rufus Miller started that has grown. You know, myths of pirate treasure in places in Florida. It's a fun story, but there is nothing to it."\par
"There, is treasure on the Ranch, if you allow me to be metaphorical. There is a treasure in the hearts of faith, in the sweet purity of the faith of the people there, that I love. They hope. They love - there is such a self-sacrificial, Christian community of love and holiness. It is kind of like an ideal monastary. Here I go saying they were building Utopia and failed, but in that regard they succeeded. But it is still a Utopia of fallen people united by and in grace."\par
"You are your father's daughter."\par
She laughed again."You mean my Heavenly Father or Jake Profim?"\par
"Well, since your father is in heaven, you have TWO heavenly fathers!"\par
She laughed. Her laugh was clear and free and somehow there was nothing cynical about it, unlike much laughter these days.  "So funny! Well, Pastor - Deem, I mean, it was nice meeting you. I see someone else wants to talk to you."\par
"Goodbye," he said. To his astonishment there was a line of people in the shade on the sidewalk. Even though it was shade, it was still enough that he was sweating without moving. It seemed that the line started about ten feet away.  When Darcy moved away from him, the next person came forward.   \line  \par
\par
\par
 \par
\par
}
 