{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 19:25 July 7, 2016 Nicholls\b0\par
 Deputy Murren pulled into the Pfingster's driveway and let Deem out.  Kitten and Marigold were outside by the time Deem was mounting the front steps. Deem could hear the phone - the one telephone in the house, in the front hallway, like something out of "It's A Wonderful Life', only he was currently battling some severe doubts - ringing.\par
Deputy Murren nodded to Kitten and Marigold.  It was clear to Deem that they knew each other well.  Deputy Murren shook hands with Aaron, who had been standing there unnoticed by Deem.\par
"You're ok, I hope."\par
"Yes. I lost my car."\par
"You lost it?"\par
"I parked it somewhere. I don't know where."\par
"So that's why the good deputy brought you here?"\par
Deem gave a grim smile. "I was arrested for drunk driving, resisting arrest, selling drugs and being a SPY."\par
Kitten looked at him. "Not bad for your first day. Welcome to Nicholls. Friendliest town on earth.  If you are a squared-away Marine, that is."\par
"Thanks." \par
"Well, that would be the bishop." Kitten pointed to the house. "He's called three times."\par
Deem answered the phone. He noticed that Kitten and Marigold stayed outside, talking to Deputy Murren, with a mood that Deem could not read, in a deliberate sort of they did not want to know way.  Usually Deem could read people.  Aaron was in on the discussion.    He could not read Aaron, either.  Something had changed, a nebulous difference.  Probably he knew what the bishop was going to say, but Deem had no idea whether it was good or bad.  \par
It wasn't the bishop.  It was the president of the seminary. "Deem?"\par
 His heart sank. What a day. This had never been good news. The president tended to start his conversations with Deem with something like "this is a difficult conversation and I regret to inform you..". \par
"Yes, sir."\par
"I hope all is well.  Please hold for the Bishop." He had no idea that the president was in the Kansas City area, let along at the episcopal offices. Hopefully he didn't want the car back immediately.  Suddenly Deem had a very clear picture of where the car had been, a spot they had checked.  Deem controlled an urge to hang up and go hide under something, anything,  and refuse to ever come out.  Lack of sleep, maybe. But he'd slept, they figured, for over an hour in the hot car.  His clothes were sweat-soaked, he noticed.  Maybe he could hang up and go get a shower. He told his runaway brain to stop it. Stay focused. Stay on the phone. \par
An older voice came on. "Deem?"  It said his name, at least, in a kind and caring way. The bishop was of course a highly experienced and capable pastor.  They had had a number of meetings over the years, both due to Deem's academic performance and some of the struggles in his personal life.  The bishop had been over Michigan and had recently taken the new bishopric in MIKON (Missouri-Iowa-Kansas-Oklahoma-Nebraska). Just this spring, in fact. Deem counted him as one of his greatest spiritual formators.  At least three times he would have been thrown out of seminary except for this man overruling the seminary's decision.  At least once of those times, and maybe twice, Deem had wished he had not so acted. Relief and fear were in balance. \par
"Yes, sir."\par
"Well, I heard you got in some trouble with the law today. I am sorry."\par
"Yes I did.  Thank you.  You see, sir-"\par
"No need to explain, son.  I heard the whole story.  I know Nicholls can be a very difficult place and from what I have heard, you have done very well. Let me tell you I am proud of you."\par
"Proud of me?" \par
"Let me tell you that I have asked the other two candidates to withdraw.  From what I have heard, I think you are the man for the job. But understand that even though I am rooting for you, I will not go against the recommendation of the elders in this case.  I don't want to saddle you with an elder board that is set against you by doing that. It's more complicated than that, as you know."\par
"Yes, sir, I have studied Wrigley on Church Polity."\par
"I know you did. I read your paper in that course. You did quite well on this point. On others, not so well.  But Wrigley is not everything - you will find the practical will outweigh the theoretical, and Wrigley is theory.  General, and his observations were in a particular time and place with particular people.  Not with the people you are encountering - definitely not.   I don't know everything, but you know that as bishop I consider my first job is to pastor the pastors.  I take care of those who take care of the sheep.  And I know you better, because of our time in Michigan, than I do my other pastors.  So I pay attention to those in seminary and to those in the field, and close attention when pastors and churches do their dance to see if they will work together.  Academics and theory are secondary, in my book, if a man cannot pastor, he is a danger to the flock.   I shepherd. I feed and weed. I thought you would need some encouragement. I think you can pastor.  The elders in Nicholls are very wise and can strengthen you where you are weak.  I think it is a good fit.  Aaron has given me a full report.  The church there has been through some tough times, as you know by now.  You are a man for tough times.  Some people are groomed for the most difficult outposts, the hardest spots, the most challenging positions.  But there are where the greatest rewards are as well.  I am doing what I can for you.  In the grace of God you must do the rest.  You need to think about how to move the church on from its recent and most difficult and hurtful rupture with the former pastor." \par
"Pastor Hartmann. What's he doing now?"\par
"Do you remember what Jesus said to Peter at the end of John? I think you need to focus on the present. Don't worry about him. Press on, as the good apostle said. Do the one thing, forgetting about the past and reaching forward to the high call in Christ Jesus."\par
"Do you have any other advice for me, sir?\par
"Yes. Drop the 'sir' when you and I are talking privately. Maybe Nicholls is having a bad effect on you?" The bishop was teasing him. Deem was surprised. "I expect you are wondering if you should go and visit the Ranch.  I will talk about that in a minute.  First, I want you to go meet Father O'Reilly."\par
"The Catholic priest? Why?"\par
"For one thing, he is a friend. You need friends in Nicholls. He is a very wise and experienced man and very godly. I am most impressed by him.  He is on the diocesan ecumenical committee. Things between us and the Catholics are not like they were thirty years ago.  We work together on some social issues, like pro-life.  Of course our doctrinal differences are real.  He knows the town.  You do not know the value of his friendship.  There are some issues, I suspect, that will come up with that you and he will need to address together.  In the culture wars we are on the same side. Do you harbor anti-Catholicism to a great extent?"\par
What an odd question, thought Deem.  He was unsure as to what to say.\par
"Of course you do.  Well, get to know him.  I am sure you will value his friendship."\par
Deem said nothing.  If the bishop had advocated they share concubines, and two were on their way down to Nicholls,  he would have been less shocked.     \par
"Next week  I am coming to Nicholls and you and he and I will have lunch.  Don't worry."\par
Deem knew that the Epper official view on the Catholics had changed, but he had grown up as an Epper.  There had been arguments and discussions and seminars at the seminary, all of which Deem had avoided, because they were using more Greek and Hebrew than he could follow, as well as some of the advanced theological concepts that he had never been able to wrap his head around, and he hated academic arguments.   "I am feeling kind of lost."\par
"I know.  In some ways we all are. The times are changing.  But about the Ranch...That is something that we need to talk about.  Their council of twelve - that's their elder board - has reached out - tentatively- with the idea of rejoining us Eppers, even though we kicked them out.  As you know we have modified our position to allow fraternization with other denominations - even the Catholics and Orthodox, to some extent - and use of the gifts that everyone said ceased with the death of the last apostle does not mean someone is automatically out."\par
 "That does not mean we are encouraging the gifts. We have not gone charismatic or Pentecostal or Irvingite, right?"\par
"No. I find those terms misleading, frankly.  I think, and you will find a position paper coming out soon, that is going before the Assembly, and will be ratified, by all the signs, that we can tolerate those phenomenae.  Noyes has not risen from the dead.  We are not endorsing seeking phenomenae or personal perfection.  Those people need proper shepherding and wise guidance, not automatic disfellowshipping.  And on healing, that is something that is close to my heart.  When I was a young pastor there was a girl in the hospital and her parents asked me as her pastor to pray for healing.  I threw a lot of "if it be thy will"s in it.  As a pastor, if someone asks for prayer for healing, pray for healing.  I have done a lot of study on this.  We cannot tell everyone to tough it out.  That is not the Gospel."\par
Deem had heard a lot of sharp arguments both ways on this in the class on Ministry Today, and in the class on Prayer.  "It sounds like Jake Profim has won."\par
"You are very perceptive. I would say the Lord has won.  Yes. The denomination, thrity years later, is coming to the position he was at thirty years ago.  I think you have  run into a few Ranch people. Tell you what - let's you and me go out and sit down with their Council of Twelve nezt week.  That is another purpose for my visit.   Let me back up a minute and tell you a little of our history, even if you have heard it, it is worth retelling..  We had churches in upstate New York in the 1840s that were devastated by the perfectionist controversies,  well, not just New York but all the way from Ohio to Connecticutt.  We fought long and hard against Noyes and others, and anything smacking of complete perfection or total sanctification in this life left a huge sour taste in our mouths.  Azusa was not Putney, was not Oneida.  When the Pentecostal Revival hit we reacted negtively to it.  If you research you will find that before then we were a lot more open to healing and other things than we were after Azusa Street. We just sort of shut down anything that we deemed sensationalistic.  We went overboard into a cold and sometimes sterile anti-emotional doctrinal freeze, and we have been there a long time.  There are sensationalist and exhibitionism, and overemotionalist excesses out there, but we have gone overboard the other way.  To quote Jake Profim, 'we need to neither choke the Ghost nor Shove the Dove, but walk in love with our God.'  We were blockheads and didn't listen.  He would have been a great leader of our denomination.  People above me feel like the Ranch is our mess, one we need to clean up.  It is not that they are a mess, but we are the mess.  We need to meet them humbly. If they come back in, it will be as equals." \par
"I see." Deem didn't, but he didn't know what else to say.  He was used to conversations about him, usually going badly.  Now the focus was on how he could help others, and help other people help other people.  He felt the foundations of his worldview shifting underneath him as to where he fit into the world. Nicholls also was a glass house.  He had a feeling everyone in town knew everything about everyone else, and especially about the new guy.  People probably knew he was on the phone right now with the bishop.\par
"I doubt you do, frankly.  I know I don't see everything here. I know God is moving and I am learning.  'Speak, Lord, for your servant hears.' Like young Samuel, that should be your prayer. Walk with God. Strengthen your prayer life. Don't let the so-and-so's grind you down. They will if you let them. I suggest you read 1 Timothy slowly and carefully before you go to bed tonight."\par
"I will."\par
"How's that sermon shaping up?"\par
"I've got the rough notes put together - I did that last night. If I remember correctly, it won't take a whole lot of effort to get it done."\par
"That is good. There is a whole lot riding on that sermon. I know you will wrap it up just fine.  I am confident in you. Hang in there.. God bless you. See you Sunday. I am looking forward to hearing  it. Goodbye."  And the bishop hung up.  Deem thought to himself: the bishop will be here.  \par
He went outside.  The deputy's patrol car was gone, as was Aaron.  \par
"Do you need something to eat?" Deem noticed they said nothing about his conversation with the bishop.\par
Fifteen minutes later he was sitting on his bed. Rack. They called it a rack for some reason. He opened his Bible and yawned.  He would read 1 Timothy as instructed and then work on his sermon.  He was thinking it was mostly done. On Hebrews.  He found himself reading Hebrews 1.  He turned back to Timothy. No, he was in 1 Thessalonians. Ugh. He yawned. It was hard to focus. Finally, 1st Timothy!\par
The next morning he decided he had fallen asleep in chapter 2, when he woke up and his Bible was upside down on the floor, open to that chapter.  It was five AM and daylight, but he felt happier than he had in a long time. It was cool.  He looked out the window and it looked like hundreds of people were running, really running, not jogging, in shorts and t shirts. Men, women, old people, kids. Whole families out running.  What a town.    He read 1 Timothy through again, thought about it and spent some time praying as instructed in chapter 2.  There was a smell of sausages from downstairs and he closed his Bible and went down to face the day. Each day has enough trouble of its own.  He wondered what today would bring.  He could face it, he decided, with God in control.\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 