{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 July 9, 2016 9 AM Nicholls\b0\par
"What do you think of \i concursus\i0 ? Are you an occasionalist, perhaps?"\par
That was the elder's sixteenth question, maybe, in fifteen minutes, all of them like that.  Different subjects. Probing, giving up when he could see no opening and going on to the next question. Deem took a sip of coffee. Apparently Elder Chips was playing chess.  The last move had been Deem's admission that God moved directly, without human agency sometimes, in the hearts of men and women to effect change. Without means, in fact.\par
Deem looked at him, a wrinkled, bearded, sunburned rancher with hundreds of acres east of town and remembered what he had said:  "Mostly useless: we have less cattle than you'd think because the ground is so rocky: it is hard to find enough grass for them, so anywhere else it'd be only a few hundred acres. Hardly enough to run cattle on. We run Longhorn, mostly.  They can take care of themselves.'  Perhaps the answer was in there, somewhere. A sporadic God who withheld blessings? An improvident Providence who pushed and pummeled puppets?  Rugged self-reliance?  Certainly this elder was rocky, sparse on encouragement, used to hostile elements, unsparing and wary. One of the faults of the presbyterian system was that it sometimes got the wrong people into eldership. That was Deem's impression, despite the man's theological literacy.  Deem was tempted to confront, perhaps out of 1 Corinthians 13, but something held him back.  He would check himself until he knew what that was. The strength of the episcopal system was that it guarded against lay elders who were inappropriately in office. The strength of the Epper system was that it was supposed to combine both of those systems. Yet here he was. \par
 He and Deem were having a nice quiet cup of coffee in Butler's Diner, where people were still talking about the gold coins someone had dropped off yesterday, probably a boy from the Ranch who had paid for a banana split with two 1865 gold coins.  Now the breakfast crowd had thinned out.    Harry and his buddy were nowhere in sight.  The only other diners, in fact, were four former Marines who had taken the anti-military route and wore the standard fatigue jacket, jeans, long beard and hair.  They were drinking coffee and eating a late breakfast - peak was 6 AM, Deem had been told - and it was now 0800, military time, and were unhappy about something that had happened the previous evening.  They were sitting close enough that Deem could hear them.  Deem did not get the references but it was clear something very ugly had been planned and had not gone well.  Deem tried not to listen. Foul language was not permitted in Butler's, Deem had learned, and unlike Crazy Harry they were honoring that rule. From the snatches of conversation, though, nothing else was getting any honor: God, women, the Army, people who didn't serve, coffee, dogs, rain and most of all the Ranch.\par
Their conversation stopped when sheets of rain grew loud against the plate glass window. It was so unusual now that everyone would stop and look.  Water did fall from the sky. They were now all witnesses to this new and amazing phenomenon.  Mostly it had been a slow drizzle in Nicholls, but there were patches of intense rain that would move through loudly.\par
"We usually say \i simultaneity\i0  rather than \i concursus\i0 , which is a term the Thomists and the Calvinists use, and we like to emphasize our separation with our own terms.  Sometimes though they mean the same thing and are not helpful when we attempt dialog.  I have no problem with God and man working at the same time on something without it being synergetic, if that is your question."\par
"That is the problem.  You just affirmed synergy while denying it."\par
"Not at all," Deem said, and then wondered while Elder Chips had a 'got 'em' look.  In a non-elder or anyone younger he would have described this as immaturity.  He quickly squelched it. "Why are you asking?" Deem returned.  The fact he was looking for was still eluding him, but perhaps he could draw it out.  He might be throwing away this parsonage on this confrontation, but then he didn't want to be a doormat either.  And he might get more respect if he pushed back a little more than was his like.  And he did have a lot of pent-up frustration, despite his efforts to rid himself of it and give it all to God. It lurked in him somewhere.  This would set the stage for the rest of his life. He could hear old Smith in Pastoral Life: \i pastors have to fend, defend, offend, forfend. All actions carry risk. Any course of action can go wrong. Pick one and trust God. Don't let the so-and-so's grind you down.\par
\i0 "God can act wholly without us, to answer you," Deem went on, a little more forcefully, "and can act above and beyond and behind our free will,without compromising it, so that we can be 'running together' without compromising either our free will or God's sovereignty.  We deny neither, as you know. we affirm free will.  We affirm Divine election.  We deny that either compromises the other."\par
Elder Chips was about to say something, but one of them men at  the other table yelled out, "I see you don't have your dogs with you this morning," to a man who just walked in the door after shaking the rain off outside, under the overhang.  He was loud enough to be heard up in Cass County.  The newcomer didn't have the Nicholls look.  He was about sixty, nothing different there, but he was unusally tall and broad, and his clothes were better made than what most people in Nicholls wore.  Not fancy, just better made, and well taken care of.  He had a long rain coat and a broad-brimmed waterproof hat, which he had removed with a little shake outside but was still dripping a few drops inside. His hair was a little longer than the Marine high-and-tight, and he was not armed.  But neither did he appear  weak in any way. He conveyed a quiet dignity, and something in that remark was mildly amusing. Another man accompanied him, somewhat shorter, but also not Nicholls, and not armed. He was dressed similarly.\par
"Good morning to you," the first man said with a smile, and waved to them.  He and his friend crossed the restaurant and sat down at the bar with their backs to the tables, hoping for coffee. Deem thought they must be friends with the four.  But a strange greeting, that. Something was not right.\par
The four seemed to think the two new people had turned their backs on them. They got up  as one and went over to the two new guys as they sat. The four stood over them, scowling, as Deem could see in a reflection. A little too close, a little too aggressive.\par
"Oh-oh," Deem said.  \par
Suzette, no taller than five-foot zero inches, , maybe 75 pounds if you weighted her down, the waitress on duty, came out from the back.\par
"If there's going to be trouble," she said,"take it outside." She looked up at them with a glare that would make a DI proud, Deem thought.  If he ever was on the receiving end of that, he might just shrivel up and die. They called it a war-face in Nicholls. Good for Halloween anywhere else.  What did they do for Halloween here, anyway?\par
"No trouble," the man who had spoken at first said,"it's just some folk around here could be friendlier, that's all."  \par
"That's a two-way street, friend," the second newcomer said.\par
"Yeah, right. And I am not your friend."  The four went back to their table.  Suzette took the coffee order from the back of the room, came out and gave the four their bill, and told them they had best be on their way.  They didn't move. Suzette disappeared into the back.\par
Elder Chips whispered, "That's Luke Kikker, from the Ranch, on your right.  The other man is head of Ranch Security.   I don't know his name.  The rumor is some men went out to the Ranch last night and-"\par
But this was heard.\par
"Hey you! I don't appreciate being talked about."\par
"I didn't catch your name.  Did you go out to the Ranch last night?"\par
"None of your --- business."\par
"LIke you said, some folk around here could be friendlier." Elder Chips stared at them.  They stared back, a hard stare, for a solid minute. Those not facing Elder Chips turned and joined in the staring contest. Neither side backed down.  Deem tried to look into their hard, cold, dead eyes but found he couldn't.  They were locked on Elder Chips, anyway.  Then, as one,  they turned back into their own little group.  Deem suggested the two of them leave, but Elder Chips shook his head.  It could get ugly, he whispered.  No sense walking out now. \par
"You got that right."  one of the four, the one across the table facing him, said without any trace of a smile. And they began whispering again. They hung around while Luke and his friend drank their coffee.  When they got up and left, the four  watched them leave and then followed them out the door. The last one turned and threw some change and bills onto the table, some of which slid off. A bill delicately floated to the floor, an odd thing to see at present, Deem thought. In the silence a coin rolled noisily and then stopped and fell over. How did a guy like that get a crisp new dollar bill, anyway.  Maybe forged.\par
"Come on, man," Elder Chips said,"Four against two is no odds. I wasn't in the Walking Dead for nothing."  \par
"The what?"\par
"1st Battilion, 9th Marines. Surprised you never heard of us. Best in the Corps. And the Pentagon deactivated us again. Rear Echelon Mo- Come on: you want to live forever?"  \par
What kind of a town is this, Deem asked himself again.  And the four were all armed.  They'd all hitched their belts when they got up to adjust the location of their weapon, in a gesture Deem now recognized. Well, he and Elder Chips were armed, too.  "Yee-haw," Deem said to himself. The wild west. Seminary had not included martial arts. And he had only been to the firing range once.  Eppers were not pacifists, but killing someone...Deem had never thought it was something he would ever be...what would the bishop....the church...God...hadn't come up in Ethics...street evangelism didn't cover it...And Elder Chips was an elder...His brain seemed to go its own way as he and Elder Chips went out the door. "I'll take point," Elder Chips said. Deem nodded. What else could he do?   Deem decided not to draw unless the others did, and only if Elder Chips drew.  He was new at this. What if they shot first?  But there had been no gunfire. Yet. O, Lord, he prayed a Nehemiah prayer, Help! Had he even loaded his weapon?  Kitten had said to keep it loaded. An unloaded weapon is more dangerous, because then you start thinking every weapon is unloaded, and that's when bad stuff happens. Keep everything ready.  How many rounds did he have? Nuts. This was pure nuts. \par
Some part of his mind that seemed to be acting independently told him to note this as a future sermon illustration. If he lived, another part said. He wondered if he was having an out-of-body experience. No, another part of him said. \par
Half a block west Luke and his friend were standing over the four, who were, it seemed napping on the sidewalk in a semicircle, their feet towards its center, slowly getting soggy in the light rain.   \par
"What happened?" Deem asked. There had been five of him a minute earlier, but he was one again.  He then realized that he had no idea who any of these men were or what the problem was.   Elder Chips said the two standing were of the Ranch, so he would eventually find out.\par
Luke shrugged. "We need to be on our way," he said.  Deem thought to himself that he was not going to argue with them.\par
"I'm Deem Futz," Deem said, in an attempt to learn what was going on, and stuck out his hand, "pastoral candidate for the Epper church."  He suppressed an urge to - well, it was an urge. His heart was slowing down, anyway. He wanted to - what? An adrenaline rush and nothing to hit or shoot or anything. Some part of him, he was surprised to find, was disappointed.  Maybe he would take up hunting. Big game hunting.  Kill buffalo.  Bear.  The scene in "Dancing with Wolves" sprang into his mind in which a man eats the liver from a freshly killed buffalo. "Ta-tonka," Deem muttered. He wanted to do that, suddenly. Normally his brain didn't take side trips like this, but it seemed to be out there somewhere, he thought. In orbit around Mars, killing space buffalo.\par
"Really?" Luke's friend said. "Nice to meet you.  But another time, another place. We need to be going."  And they did.\par
"What was that all about?" Deem asked Elder Chips, who had checked for pulses and found them just fine.  He'd also taken their weapons and removed the ammunition. Maybe sanity was returning to the world. This could not be happening. He could not have just narrowly missed a gunfight.\par
"All that fool talk of gold at the Ranch, I suppose.  You know some elf paid for his ice cream sundae yesterday with a bag of gold? He poured it out on the counter, said there was more at the Ranch, and then vanished into thin air, right there in the restaurant?"\par
"Doesn't sound credible."\par
"It's not. But. well, some people seem to believe it.  I don't know what happened, but something did, and something happened at the Ranch last night that involved these characters. Maybe it was one kid and two coins, or a whole troop of monkeys with jewels. Or nothing, when we get to the bottom of it."\par
"Is there a problem, sir?" this came from a patrol car that had just pulled opposite. \par
"No, no problem.  But you might want to check these guys out."\par
Two officers who could only be described as burly got out and came over.  They looked at Deem and Elder Chips, and at the four men.\par
"Did you guys -"\par
"No. We did not."\par
"- see what happened?"\par
"No, we did not."\par
"Right."  the officer considered this statement. "Well, I'm not going to ask who did.  We got a call from the diner that there might be some trouble, so we came over to see what was going on.  I guess they got tired and took a nap."\par
"I guess so, officer."  There they were, napping in their wet clothes on a wet sidewalk. One moaned slightly. \par
"I recognize all four.  We have outstanding warrants on them. You might as well move along." And they did.\par
"Where are their sidearms? I see holsters."  One of the cops called from behind them.\par
"Ammo's in the gutter, weapons against the side of the building, Officer," Elder Chips said, turning. He turned back to Deem. "Nicholls is a good town.  The only problem is that trailer court.  Years ago it was a decent place, but old Sam died and left it to his widow, who could not control it.  Today it is a dangerous place. It's gone downhill badly in every way you can name. Normally they stay on their side of the highway and we stay on ours. I'm not sure why they were over here."\par
"Coffee, maybe?"\par
"Yeah, everyone likes the coffee in Butler's.  I'm just wondering if they were there on purpose, to cross paths with someone from the Ranch."\par
"I have no idea."  The idea was not one Deem was comfortable with.  He had thought Nicholls was a happy, tight, uptight place, not a town with an underside.  But every town had one.\par
Deem watched as a grown man in a grey rabbit suit hopped across the street some distance ahead of them. He carefully took a brightly colored egg from a his large yellow basket and hid it under a bush, and hopped out of sight. Deem raised his eyebrows.\par
"That's Nelson.  You'll find eggs all over town.  You never know if they are fresh, raw, cooked or rotten, so throw one away if you find it."\par
"PTSD?"\par
"No one knows.  He answers to Nelson, sometimes.  He showed up a couple of months ago. He stays away from people. Usually people see him only in the early morning. This is kind of late for him."\par
They continued walking, heading back to Pfingsters'.   "Are you familiar with the Ranch?"\par
"Not for a number of years.  I have not been out there.  Different people say different things. Some of them work here, but they don't talk much about it.  I know it used to be Jake Profim's property, the same as was pastor here years ago, and that there was a lot of charismania involved along the way.  We have a few people in the church, rather we had a few people, who used to go out there or live out there, and I have heard a thing or two that makes me wonder.  I would like to think there is more to the charismatic than feeling good and speaking in tongues and positive confession, but I wonder.  I think it is pretty much over in power.  We need to get back to the Gospel of Christ, to the giver of miracles rather than focusing on the miracles themselves. There are a lot of crazy rumors. People talk a lot about things about which they don't know a lot."\par
Kitten pulled up beside them in his pickup truck.\par
"Providential!" Deem laughed. "But it's not that far to your house."\par
Kitten shook his head. "There's talk all over town about what happened last night out at the Ranch.  Get in, both of you, and we will head out there.  They need to know what people are saying.  And they don't use telephones, mostly."\par
"Let me get my truck," Elder Chips said. "Then I've business elsewhere."\par
"I'll take you there. On Main Street?"\par
"Yes. Across from Butler's, in front of the MMA Academy."\par
"Got it. Hop in."  And he did.\par
This was the second time Deem had been inside Kitten's truck, but he had not seemed to notice it the first time.  It was older but immaculate. He was not surprised to see a rifle slung across the back and boxes of ammunition in a net just under the ceiling. Manual transmission. There was plenty of room for the three of them.\par
Deem also had noticed before this that there were no street signs, no stop signs, no traffic signals, no speed limit signs and not even any lane markings on the streets of Nicholls.  He figured it went along with the theory that men who regulate themselves are better than men who must be governed, which he had heard in some conversation lately, or the simple fact that the guy you cut off is armed and can shoot you then and there was possibly enough incentive to behave decently.  In any case Kitten did a U-turn and barrelled down the left-hand side of the street, turned onto Main and dropped Elder Chips off, did another U-turn and headed west.  Deem lost count of the traffic violations he would have had anywhere else.  Traffic was very light and Kitten honked twice on approaching cross streets.  At the city limit sign Deem glanced at the speedometer: 75 MPH.\par
"It's straight and flat, anyway," he said to himself.\par
"If it wasn't raining I'd be going faster."\par
He knew where he was going.  Not a minute later he slowed down enough to fishtail to the right, gun it again and go north on a road that was even narrower than the last one. Then he slowed down, turned left, and after a minute said, "This is it," and Deem had his first view of the Ranch, that community he had heard so much about.  There was a big sign with John 3:16 written on it.  Then another sign, Visitors Welcome.  Then another, Private Property. Then another,  Danger Large Animals. Enter At Your Own Risk."\par
"That last one is new," Kitten said,"and the gate's shut here.  Usually this one is open. In fact, I didn't know there was one here. An actual gate, I mean. Usually you just drive through. But it's been a while since I was out here. Years, come to think of it."\par
Across the road was a very stout gate, like any other cattle gate painted red, only this one was much stronger than most.  Behind it was the largest head of cattle Deem had ever seen, a dangerous-looking Longhorn of some sort.\par
"Someone told them something.  That is one of their Aurochs."\par
"Their what?"\par
"Aurochs."\par
"They have aurochs here?"\par
"Yep."\par
"I didn't know anyone in the States had them.  I thought just a few Eppers in Poland kept them."\par
Deem looked at the so-called extinct cattle.  The bull had trotted up to look at them.  A smaller one, a cow, came up to join him, and then another cow. The bull's horns had about a seven foot spread, with wickedly sharp upturned ends. They did not get close. The bull shook his head and made noise.  He did not like them there.  \par
"We'll have to go to the north entrance." Kitten said.\par
So two minutes later they were on I-49 and they got off on Kikker Boulevard.  Here, in the middle of nowhere, was a campus of low-rise office buildings surrounded by parking lots. "Kikker Office Park" the sign said.  Further on were warehouses. They crossed the highway and turned south on the West Outer Road.  Not long after that they came to North Gate, the industrial entrance to the Ranch. Here were uniformed guards in booths, and these men, Deem noticed, had that Nicholls, ex-Marine, fit look.  And they were armed. \par
They could not take their truck into the Ranch without inspection - insect control was very important - so they parked and walked one hundred feet to a low building with a sign that said "Ranch Security."  Deem thought about how they had just about driven right onto the Ranch at the South Gate without this problem.  Something was different up here. \par
"Go on in," their escort told them, and as they approached the door they heard it unlock.  They passed through.  Their escort had stayed until they were inside, and then had left, Deem noticed.\par
There was a small waiting area with doors in various directions. Before they had a chance to sit down one of these opened and the man Deem had seen with Luke came out and shook hands all around.  He knew Kitten, and introductions were made for Deem. He was Pat Oshiwara, head of security.  He had that air about him of quiet confidence and no need to boast.  He was originally from Mumbai, India, Deem learned, and still had a touch of the Indian accent.  There was an Epper colony in the heart of Mumbai that mainly served the poor in Mumbai, but his parents had been expelled when he was a child and they had settled here. He'd gone to high school in Nicholls, before they had a school here, and had joined the Corps, where he had wound up training martial arts instructors for the Corps as well as serving in the Short Patrol.  He'd come back here and found he was needed. So here he was.\par
They were aware of the rumors in town.  Pat knew of Deem and had spoken with the father of the boy who had found the gold, and knew the boy as well.  The south entrance had been closed.   \par
Pat was not one you asked a lot of questions of, Deem decided.  Nor did he need to be told anything, because it seemed he already knew about it, although he wouldn't bother to tell you. They were welcome to eat lunch here, since Deem had never been to the Ranch before.  They would be given a lift, as the North Dining Hall was five miles south of their present position, if they would like.\par
 Kitten thought it would be a good idea.  Pat could not join them: he had things he had to take care of today, what with the trouble.  He pushed a button on his desk.  A minute later one of the guards came in. He was in his late twenties.\par
"Rogers, take these men to the North Dining Hall for lunch.  They are free to go wherever. Stand by to pick them up."  He nodded.\par
The rain had picked up a little, so Rogers pulled a van under a port cochere and they got in.\par
Kitten took the shotgun seat, leaving Deem to sit behind him. \par
"Where are you from, Rogers?" Deem asked.\par
"I'm from here.  I mean, my parents came before I was born.  We were in an Epper settlement outside York, England.  My parents still have that Yorkshire accent."\par
"Really?" Deem responded, "Well, I'm Deem Futz.  I'm the pastoral candidate for the Epper church in Nicholls."\par
"It would not be my place to comment on that, sir.  No offense, I hope."\par
"None taken.  Is there a pastor out here?"  Deem got a sudden worry that he should know the answer to that.\par
"No..  We have been praying for a pastor for years.  The Council of Twelve - that's the elders - handle that sort of thing."\par
"Well, I'm an elder and I would not so presume that I could, or the elders could, fill in for the pastor for a long period of time."  This was of course Kitten speaking.\par
"It would not be my place to comment on that, sir.  You would have to take it up with them."\par
"I see."  And there was a silence.  Deem noticed through the grey, rainy windows a grey, rainy, flat land, with water just flowing in sheets across it and across the road, which was just where the flat ground had been paved. The rain was washing away the ash from the fire.  There had been some warehouse type buildings when they had started,but now they were in the very open country.  There was a minute or so where there were no buildings in sight, and then they passed a road that led west, and on the horizon they saw some buildings, or rather the tops of some buildings.\par
"What's that?" Deem asked.\par
"That is an Epper settlement. That's where we get our chickens."  But Rogers was nothing if not uninformative past that.  Deem could think of no follow-up questions.\par
They came to some stone houses suddenly, built without space between them, and Deem knew they were at the Epper settlement.  Then there were houses on either side, fine, three-story stone houses, all obviously occupied, with window-boxes that normally would have had flowers but currently were empty.  Curtains were drawn back from windows.  There were people everywhereStone sidewalks, stone street, stone curb, stonehouses. Stone, stone, stone.  They passed several rows of houses along the street, past a few side streets that led down rows of stone houses, and pulled into a parking lot.  Here was another stone building.  This one reminded him of the Parthenon in Rome, with a dome.  It also had a portico all around.  Inside were tables.\par
"If you don't mind, sir, I would like to eat with my wife," Rogers said,"I'll meet you here in half an hour. Or you can get me on your cell phone. Here, I'll Bluetooth-"\par
"I don't have a cell phone," Kitten responded.\par
"I'll be here in half an hour," Rogers returned, with a blank, professional face. \par
"Not a problem," Kitten said.  There were sixty or so tables, mostly full of people arguing, people dressed distinctly different from Nicholls, like Luke had been. Better tailoring.  The women had a liking for a modest amount of embroidery.  Some wore the traditional Epper hats: there was a system for telling the single women from the married women from the widows, but it varied from place to place and Deem was not sure it had any meaning here. Some women were bareheaded, others had their hair fully covered. There was just variety here, far more than in Nicholls, far more than in most places in America. \par
Kitten and Deem joined the line, which unlike most lines, was fast-moving.  A little way ahead it broke into four separate lines.  It was just like any other cafeteria, Deem thought, only you didn't have to pay.  Epper settlements never used money internally. He would not be surprised if somewhere on the premises there wasn't a big pile of cash, completely unguarded and out in the open, for anyone to come along and take.  The method had worked admirably against all sorts of plunderers, thieves and robbers, for hundreds of years, who would simply ask where the money was, be directed to it, and take it.  God had always come through in restoring what had been stolen.  \par
Here was a flat screen TV telling the menu choices.  Lines 1 and 2 were Mexican food, lines 3 and 4 Polish.  In Line 2 Deem had to pass up more dishes than he could have ever eaten, some of which he had not seen before.  He looked for the familiar, and soon loaded up  his plate with tacos with sour cream, refried beans and a burrito, rice, and a sugary pastry  with honey he had no name for.  'Sopapillas' it said.\par
"They should be called \i bu\'f1uelos\i0 , since they are cold," the man opposite, in Line 1 , said. "Sopapillas should be served hot." He was in his fifties or older, with long white bangs that had thinned out and his hair otherwise short. He had long stringy white moustaches and his wild white eyebrows completed the look.\par
"I don't believe I know you. Dave Zlotky."\par
"Kitten Pfingster."\par
"Deem Futz."\par
They joined three other men and a woman at a table.  One of the four had the high cheek bones and skin tones of an American Indian and emphasized this with long black braids. One of the other men, and the woman, were clearly from the South of India by their color and features.  The last one was ethnically Korean, if Deem had to guess.  A friend of his at seminary had been Korean, and had been very emphatically so, and made clear the differences between Koreans and Japanese and Chinese. They were already in a fast and difficult-to-follow technical discussion. \par
Deem saw that people sat wherever there was an open seat, with no sense that a table was anyone's.  He was amazed to discover that, despite a great deal of background noise, everyone could hear everyone else at the table.\par
As far as Deem could tell, the discussion revolved around the right carbon distribution percentages involved in the manufacture of high-acid environment ceramics.  The four obviously worked together and while they politely greeted the three, they swiftly plunged back into their discussion witn an, "Excuse us, please: we need to settle this."  \par
"Dave, you know what they are talking about?" This was Kitten. They smiled but continued.\par
"Not me.  I'm a stone mason by trade."\par
"Deem here is the pastoral candidate for the church in Nicholls. The Epper church, I suppose I should say."\par
"Ah, yes.  I heard your Pastor Hartmann had moved on."\par
"That is true."\par
"How long, Dave, have you been at the Ranch?"\par
"Since 1990.  Most of my life, in other words.  My parents and I moved here from Poland after the wall fell."\par
"Poland? I thought, what with the Stand, and the War -"\par
"My parents hid out in the woods during the Nazi times with the rest of their settlement and were never found, even when the Soviets moved through.   But later, they were forced to move to Katowice and become part of 'normal society'.  We got along well with the Poles but never really fit in.  We moved to a settlement in the US when we could but then there was that crackdown among the Eppers - and here we are." He looked at Deem. "Awkward."\par
"And here we are," said Deem. "That is history."  With Kitten here, an Epper elder, it was especially awkward.  Hopefully Deem would not have to explain where the Eppers currently were at: for one thing, it was extremely confusing and nuanced, and another, he was not too sure of his own role here. In some ways this was an advance trip, not a time to announce he was going to be some kind of liaison here. "Things are changing."\par
"So I hear."\par
Deem gestured at Dave's plate. "So...A whole line of Polish food, and you go for the Mexican."\par
"Well, yeah. My parents always cooked Dutch at home, and I don't really like Polish food, to be honest."\par
"A man after my own heart," Kitten interjected.\par
"What are these little peppers?" Deem held one up and looked at it.\par
"Those are called \i habeneros\i0 . They are extremely, and I kid you not, extremely hot."\par
Deem nodded a the two Indian Indians across the table, who had a pile of them and were popping them as they talked.\par
"It's an acquired taste," one said, and returned to their discussion.  "Sorry to be so rude, but we have a deadline."\par
"Not a problem," Deem replied.\par
\par
 \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
}
 