{\rtf1\fbidis\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red155\green0\blue211;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green77\blue187;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\ltrpar\b\f0\fs22\lang1033  \cf1\b0  \cf0\par
\ul\b Chapter 5 Deem Comes to the Ranch\par
\par
\cf1\ulnone\b0 Kikker Industries (KI)  is 90% underground, with the residential 10% in earth-sheltered homes facing away from the highway, discretely hidden.  Deem signs a non-disclosure agreement and learns there is a nuclear power plant down there with 95% energy recaptiure that is harnessed to make the ceramics; extra electricity is bartered to other settlements on the Ranch, transmitted via tunnels. He is not allowed to see it, as most people are not, and is not even allowed to know exactly where it is.   There is a testing lab in Grandview that is certified to test products that is open to inspection, but there are no tours of the facility and visitors, including customers, are unwelcome.  It is, in a word, opaque. So are the finances, as it is wholly owned by the privately held Profim Properties and they do not reveal their finances to anyone, a position they have successfully held for 30 years. They do however contribute generously to Nicholls City and County, who leave them alone. Their eight settlements of approximately 100 dedicated workers each manages to create an income upwards of ten billion dollars a year in 2016. The Council of Twelve accepts a tithe but does not divulge what that is.  Of that tithe they also quietly support the Epper church in Nicholls, as well as statewide and national candidates for office who agree to leave them alone. \par
\par
Nuclear power has made tunneling extraordinarily cheap.  The north end of the Ranch is now underlaid by storage tunnels, water tunnels, electrical transmission tunnels, transportation tunnels, as well as earth-sheltered offices and homes. There is no heat signature from any of it even at ground level - partly out of the Epper habit of concealment and partly because there is an awareness that someone out there wants to know all about what they are doing, with nefarious intent.  Also, they have no permits for any of it. They have stayed away from tunneling near the faulty limestone in the area of Snake Woods.  The few underground streams encountered have been harvested for drinking water and then used, cleansed and then flushed back into the channel.  That's true in the far north, but other settlements have not accepted the tunneling technology either entirely or in part, or are slowly adapting.  Hair Bair built a large greenhouse and at the time of the story was evaluating it versus an underground one. Motorbuggies and the rough trails were not something people wanted to give up. They were uncomfortable with the idea of a ten minute trip from a settlement near Adrian (Kfaar Keshet Beunan)  to Kikker HQ. \par
\par
KI is composed of eight different specialized, mostly independent  settlements that together manufacture high quality, precision medical ceramics and specialized ceramics for industrial applications that are sold worldwide. Each buys and sells on its own but they are each other's primary customers and suppliers. Each settlement, Epper fashion, provides for their own sustenance, including basic food, shelter and clothing beyond that. \par
\par
KI dominated the northern portion of the Ranch.  Elsewhere they ran cattle.  They were utterly indifferent as to what anyone outside the Ranch thought of them as much as possible.  \par
\par
Whiggins declines to go to the Ranch, without explanation.\par
\par
At the north entrance to Hair Bair Elder Yarrock meets Deem - he explains that he cannot stay more than a few minutes. He is even shorter and thinner than Deem, in his eighties, like a leaf in fall, shriveled and ready to break, he says. His time on earth is short and he looks forward to going home. He is sunburned brown, bald, wrinkled, shriveled - although only in his seventies, he looks more like mid-nineties.  He coughs and uses a cane, and is hunched over. His amaneuensis assists him physically.  He arrives in an electric golf cart driven by the same.  It was a golf cart, but the wheels have been replaced with larger ones and it is somewhat higher off the ground. Deem is invited to climb up and talk to him for a few minutes.  Yarrock sketches out the settlements for Deem, and then tells him he must go, without asking Deem anything. \par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx900\tx2070\cf2\f1\lang9 some settlements inside the Ranch are separate mostly self-sufficient communities, but some things are more efficiently done as a whole.  A sizeable percentage of Nicholls is also now people affiliated with the Ranch. They are attracted to the large older houses, among other things. \par
\tab 200 adults => 90 couples with 6 kids avg =200+90*6=740 people.  The 200 headcount \tab is for those 16+\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx900\tx2070 Ha'ir Bira (administrative specialty)   Greenhouses, trailers, hangers, middle and high school (each town does its own elementary school and church), pharmacy, medical. major church service with outside attendees\par
Kfaar Mayam (water tower, water system, sewage and storm drainage)  church with Ha'ir Bira\par
Kfaar Kinor - emphasis on fine arts, esp. music.  Sunday service with Ha'ir Bira but closed Bible studies and prayer meetings\par
Kfaar Kesef  - despite the name, mainly dairy.  They have the aurochs.  Home church, closed to regular outside attenders but guests are welcome if known to someone - no "tourists"\par
Kfaar Even (city of stone: quarry operations, streets, gravel, stone cutting)  Home church, closed to regular outside attenders but guests are welcome if known to someone - no "tourists"\par
\par
Charitopolis  small scale machinery - church with Ha'ir Bira\par
Gnadedorf  linen - Home church, closed to regular outside attenders but guests are welcome if known to someone - no "tourists. The women avoid contact with outsiders if at all possible.  This is the church Deem visits and the women are upstairs and he only meets the men, "who will tell the women about it later, in accordance with Paul's instructions to the Corinthians - we've had problems with them in the past, talking and disrupting the service, you know, and also the whole thing of distraction, so they listen to the sermon upstairs. The boys stay up there, too, until they are eight years of age, when they join the men downstairs." They expect Deem's wife to pastor the womenfolk and are shocked at finding he is single. Something unholy about a single pastor.  Peter and the apostles took wives - who does he think he is? He is asked to leave.\par
Hillside   theology  Sunday service with Ha'ir Bira but closed Bible studies and prayer meetings\par
there are some others. \par

\pard\ltrpar\li720 Empty - this was a town that up and resettled.  The last one was interested in pottery and they went to Georgia for the clay.  Now used as housing for people at Kikker Industries - not an organized community but dependent on Ha'ir Bira for organizational matters; shuttle bus to Kikker Industries and into Nicholls for shopping.\par

\pard\ltrpar\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\b\f0\lang1033 Ir Shalom\par
\b0 All of the original inhabitants of Ir Shalom had been arrested and deported by their former government and their land siezed; they were kicked out of wherever it was "Now incidental-there is no return" - they had a sense of exile but they have sublimated it to exile from heaven, sojourners on earth, a sense that things here are temporary that others perhaps do not share. They were located in the northeast part of the Ranch and were absorbed into the Kikker Industries complex of settlements - residences cut into a quarry wall, the quarry having a pond at the bottom, weir and drainage channel away, tunnels.  Ir Shalom is also closed to all visitors and what they do and how many are there is not discussed.  It was neither confirmed nor denied that the reactor was located here. Not even the Co12 visited.  And they kept to themselves. \par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx900\tx2070\f1\lang9\par

\pard\ltrpar\cf1\f0\lang1033\tab Rock Valley\par
\tab Elder Yarrock's last comment was that he was leaving out many important things, but others would fill Deem in. \par
\par
Not sure the timing for Ellen becoming a jongedamme is right. How does that timing tie in with Deem? Is his interest in her an impetus?  Lois is the jongedamme at the beginning here. \par
\par
Often the elders of a settlement would sit at the main gate, as in Biblical times, and greet strangers or settle disputes.  These were generally those who had gotten too old to work a full day, or at all, and, although often they were wise, sometimes they were not.  So you might have some older fellows sitting there who were not technically elders in the sense of recognized leaders of the community. It was not always easy to tell. At this time at the Ranch there was the Council of Twelve, but some settlements had recognized elders who were only recognized in their own settlement, although some might have influence elsewhere. As much as possible everyone tried to live at peace with each other, and disputes were settled inside the settlement, or between settlements.  The typical response from the Council, should a dispute be kicked up to their level, was to tell the disputants to settle it themselves. \par
\par
Deem was a curiosity, as they had gone so long without hierarchial leadership,and here he was, with the Co12 saying his leadership was valid.  Some puzzlement ensued as to what that meant and how they could work with him.  No one was hostile.  Questions were raised from some who had gone through a CDP action resulting in their own exile, but they had worked through those issues without bitterness.  \par
\par
\par
\cf0 "We didn't realize you were coming.  We've been trying to set up a meeting with you and the entire Council of Twelve, but it has not worked.  I found out only yesterday that you were coming, but these things happen.  Our elders are scattered all over the Ranch.  Several are here in Hair Bair, and they will meet you.  I'm not sure we can do a formal meet--and-greet."\par
\par
"That's fine," Deem said, thinking of his two "formal" meetings with the Nicholls elders.\par
\par
"I'm glad you are so relaxed about it."  Deem smiled and said nothing.\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
\ul\b\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\li720\ulnone\b0  Sandy Sands: \cf3\i  \cf2 Why is Sandy here? Is Kitten here, too? No. That would be added complexity.  I don't think Kitten is all that interested.  Aaron, however, should be here.  Sandy has been handling communications between the Ranch and the church in town, a role he reluctantly took.  He'd been on the Council of 12 and departed during Peter Muis' time.  \i0\par
\cf0  Gary Sands: \cf3\i receptive Ranch      \cf2 needed: this is Deem's introduction to the Ranch, he sees Ellen for the first time, but it should be combined with Gary Sands.  Gary is Sandy's son.  He grew up on the Ranch and stayed when his parents left. \i0\par

\pard\ltrpar\cf0\par
\cf2\f1\lang9 Deem on seeiing Ellen: Love at first sight does not happen - I think I am changing my mind on that.\cf0\f0\lang1033\par
 \par
scene five: Aaron and Dennis show up. \par
scene six: Aaron and Kitten have a short sharp discussion about Deem. In the end, firiend, it is grace, not merit, that determines what we do in the kingdom of God., Aaron continues, telling them they would be a lot better off finding reasons to allow Deem to do what God called him to do instead of reasons to stop him.  Aaron has a look on his face that indicates he just discovered he is backing Deem 100%. The Church is not the Marine Corps.  That should not be a radical concept but seems to be. \par
\par
from then through Friday early morning, when they were mostly together., Kitten came to realize there was more here than he had thought.  He came to realize there was real determination underneath, that here was treasure in this earthen vessel, and he stayed in Deem's corner after having despised him. We all do what we do by grace, not merit, outside of the Corps.  Nicholls and the world needed to hear that message. \par
\par
Thursday Kitten learned from the clerk of Session that of the other two candidates, one decided, under the bishop's guidance, that he did not fit Nicholls. The other accepted a position elsewhere. Without a pastor the church will fold, Kitten thought, and so he had to find some way to accept Deem.   \par
\par
Deem suggested there are those who trust in the USMC or in being an Epper, above trusting in Christ. Trusting in anything except Christ is trusting in a falsehood. He also wonders if the church is in the shape it is in because they seem to have such enormously high standards - as in being a USMC vet - for entrance.  The church is not the VFW hall.  While there must be standards for membership, anyone - anyone - should be welcome, welcomed, and encouraged to join.  And membership does not mean perfection.  Kitten says it is more the particular strain of Nicholls culture here - it seems to have fossilized.  He does not realize he himself is a prime example. Or maybe he does.  But those who return to Nicholls and embrace Marine culture are few - they are a little over the top and peculiar. \par
\par
Kitten was the most opposed to Deem but winds up backing him even when he would otherwise balk. \par
\par
The Bank of Nicholls is the one holding the note on the big Epper church in town. The local bankers regret the order to close it, but it came "from out of town." Kitten sometimes wonders if someone out there has something against Nicholls. Few people have loans or mortgages and most if not all transactions in Nicholls are cash. No one really trusts the bank any more. \par
\par
Kitten asked Deem that night what he did in fighting the fire, as they had been split up.\par
\par
Nicholls resident Jim Smithston, never in the Marines and not native, lived mostly apart from the Marine community. He was a member in the Nicholls Epper church, one of the few remaining, but not an elder, either. In the church he was also somewhat isolated and concerned about the state of the church. Deem ate lunch with Kitten and him at Kikker Industries cafeteria (free to workers and guests, in the Epper tradition). He was a Jeremiah type who has been warning people at the church, in particular the elders, about the state of the church.  He was opposed to Hartmann but has gotten no thanks for being proven right, labeled a trouble maker.  He stood in opposition with a brass determination and an actual burden from the Lord.  It is odd that he prayed with "those women" for the church.  He worked as a mathematical modeler at Kikker Industries: the math models were used to build both molds and actual ceramic objects, and staged objects. These were then turned over to structural engineers who analyzed the stresses before the items were made. Tall and thin, he played basketball with some Mexicans in town and wais fluent in Spanish as far as playing basketball is concerned.\ul\b\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 Kitten conceded Deem was remarkably grateful, persevering, unassuming, quiet and unassertive unless he has to be assertive. For Kitten, Deem Futz wins acceptance as pastor.He actually would be a model Marine, something the elders sense but cannot articulate. Better yet, a model Christian.   He "has arrived", it is just no one seems to realize it. most of all him, in the inner man.  The discrepency between what Deem really was and what he appears to be was notable. He told Deem he believed in him now and he would not give up on him, even if he gave up on himself. Looking at Deem's arms, he asked,"Do you work out?" Deem found himself working out, and even taking self-defense at Main Street Mixed Martial Arts, where "The Beast" Mueller (no relationship to the Muellers of Ranch frame), former officer in charge of martial arts first at Parris Island and then at Quantico, finally at the Infantry School, ran his shop. "The Beast" took it upon himself to train Deem from nowhere to some semblance of his idea of a warrior in physique.  He is a devout Catholic and active in his parish outside of Nicholls.  Hearing of trouble, he and his assistant trainers decided to provide Deem with 24 hour protection.  \par
\par
\par
\lang9 Rock Valley - settlement known for overconfidence, immediately south of Nicholls city, regarded as worldly compromised.  They are on Old 71, mainly non-Eppers who took to some aspects of Epper lifestyle.  They are more involved in Nicholls than most of the Ranch would care to be, for example, having their kids in Nicholls schools. Their settlement is a stone ring with windows on the inside; the ring doubles as a cattle pen.  People refer to it as Isengard in humor.     They have a full-time administrator they call the executive, a lay pastor and they vote on everything, without elders, sort of doing everything group consensus without any other leadership.  It's a pure democracy.   People own their own furniture, eat separately most of the time but they have three communal meals (First Day, Fourth Day, and Six Day dinners). More of a moshav than a kibbutz. They own cattle collectively and profits are distributed by consensus, depending on perceived hard, good work.    They also have a quarry.  They were founded in the early 1990s and the founders are still active.  They've had some turnover, mainly having to ask people to leave who weren't up to the hard work that was expected.  They grow 75% of their own food and make 75% of their own belongings on family plots, which they feel is right for them.  No TVs, no Greek, no Dutch.  They do have laptops and cell phones. They even have a server and their own web page.  They write some software for Kikker Industries.   Deem tours it and no one there really knows what an Epper pastor is or what he is supposed to do - they invited him because they are curious.  Deem hits it off when he shows he can handle cattle. \par
\par
You need to be aware that we have people here from Russian and Dutch backgrounds.  And not ot everyone at the Ranch is an Epper. That's something you will have to get used to. Eppers eat and drink but in moderation - righteousness, mercy and faith in excess would be preferable, if they could be.  Eppers in general are neither ascetics or sumptuous, living well but modestly.  The ascetics who came to the Ranch were not typical Eppers, but Eppers also allowed Nazarites. Tuesday and Friday were fast days among Dutch Eppers, but the Russians instead had fast weeks  in addition to fasting every Saturday, unless it was Christmas.  Lent and Advent were both seasons of fasting among the Russians, but only Lent among the Dutch. \lang1033  \par
\par
\par
}
 