{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.10586}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 The phone rang.\par
Deputy King looked at it. \par
He was on duty, after all. Manning the fort. The office. Everyone else was out. Someone had to be here, 24-7-365, alert, vigilant, ready  for action. \par
It rang again.\par
They are calling me.  I am the only one here. Suppose it is important. How can I call the Sherriff to tell him the phone is ringing? That would be dumb, and I would hear about it.  It could just be one of those nuisance calls. It could be important.\par
He picked it up.\par
"Sherriff's office. Deputy King speaking."\par
"Mr. King, this is Lewis Staples at the bank."\par
Ah. He was the president of the local branch of Cass Bank & Trust.  He lived up in Harrisonville and drove down every day, didn't mix with Nicholls people.  He was a scrawny little old bald guy with thick glasses and he wore a three piece suit. Drove a fancy car. Had lots of money, Deputy King guessed.  Probably had a three car garage and an in-ground swimming pool. His watch was fancy. Deputy King had checked out the watch from the corner of his eye once, and it was fancy. The fanciest watch he had ever seen. It had little dials and things. Maybe, someday, he might have such a watch.  Retirement wasn't that far away, and people get watches for retirement, sometimes. Fancy watches.\par
"How are you, sir? I am fine. It is kind of lonely here, though-"\par
"I do not have time to chitchat!  There is a pressing need and I need your help."\par
Wow, thought Deputy King. Important.  Probably he does not clean his own pool. Hires someone. Probably has a gardener. A whole crew of maintenance people on his estate. Probably has a fancy swim watch. \par
"Is the bank being robbed? I will be right over."\par
"No, no. Nothing like that.  But those four gold coins that were found today - they were turned over to the bank for examination."\par
"What's the news, chief? I mean, cut to the chase here."  People talked like that to Deputy King all the time.  He felt it added to his stature.  The Sherriff had talked to him about improving his stature. That should help, he thought. Boss-type people like it when you sound important.  He was rising to the occaision, as instructed. One day he would have an in-ground swimming pool. Maybe he should mention the fancy watch right about now. \par
Mr. Staples made a noise. "I am afraid to say that I know whether the coins are genuine. Either way, if I say, there may be a riot here. Tensions are high.  I've heard there is some really ugly talk going about. Someone may get hurt.  I need you to discreetly and quietly take these coins up to our Main Office in Harrisonville for further examination. Immediately."\par
"Ok.  I will tell the sherriff and get back to you."  \par
"No. Please.  This must be discreet.  No one except you and me and the Harrisonville office must know of this.  Please come and get these - they are in a locked briefcase, now - and take them. Everyone thinks they are in the vault.   I will make the appropriate arrangements with the sherriff."\par
He hung up.  Deputy King wondered how high his diving board was as he turned off the lights.\par
Two minutes later Deputy King got in his personal vehicle. He was not being discreet, it was just that all the official vehicles were out checking for fire damage and answering needs. He grunted and got out and went back and locked the office.  Then he drove over to the bank.  He looked around carefully but no one seemed to be watching him.  \par
He checked to be sure he was not being followed.  He wasn't.\par
At the bank he got out and straightened his uniform, taking care to pull his sleeve down so his cheap watch didn't show.  He walked into the bank, head high, the very picture of law enforcement.\par
He didn't even wait in line for a teller.  He called out,"Deputy King, here! I need to see Mr. Staples!"\par
A minute later Mr. Staples arrived. Wow.  He was important.  He led Deputy King back to  his office. Deputy King tried to get a good look at the watch.  But he was only there a minute. \par
Mr. Staples gave him the briefcase.  He was told to be inconspicuous. So he tried to look as relaxed as he could as he left the bank and got in his car.  He turned onto Main, crossed the interstate and took the ramp north onto I-49.\par
"Do you see what I see?" said the owner of a truck that was missing a fender.\par
"Yep. Doesn't take much to put two and two together. Let's get the boys together and pay the good deputy a little visit. Those coins must be worth a lot of money - and maybe they can tell us where more are. I don't think Deputy King knows where they are."\par
There was a comment about him knowing much of anything.\par
"Deputy King is trying to be inconspicuous, I bet. And with all the other officers out -"\par
"- he goes to the bank, gets a briefcase, and leaves town." \par
Deputy King did not pay attention to the four pickup trucks until he had to.  The first one passed him and moved over into his lane ahead of him.  Just before it passed him he glanced and Myron Shultz was in the passenger seat.   There were no cars in sight.\par
Myron could be bad news. Myron had served time in a military prison before coming back to Nicholls.  He'd been a bad apple before then and was worse now.  He and his friends were seldom up to anything good.\par
Another pickup truck pulled beside him, and there was a fourth just beside him in the other lane.  The truck in front slowed down so that he he had to slow down, and the truck beside him moved over so he had to move over.  They were soon stopped on the shoulder.   It just looked like one truck had car trouble and they were talking about it. They opened a hood just for show.\par
"What are you doing?" Deputy King asked.  He really wished he had a gun. They were all armed.  They were all masked. One was wearing a Richard Nixon Halloween mask. That belonged to, he could remember if he had to. And a Bill Clinton mask. Someone had worn that last Halloween. The town had a big bonfire and costume party on Halloween.  He thought he recognized some of them. Myron, definitely.\par
"Get out," someone told him.  He did.  They grabbed the briefcase. \par
"You realize you are interfering with an officer of the law in the performance of his duties?"\par
"Yep."\par
"Myron, what are you doing?"\par
They exchanged glances. "Now what are we going to do."\par
"Not sure."\par
"My maw would kill me if we hurt him."\par
"And you know his mother. She'd kill you twice." That was true.  A good third of the town was afraid of Mrs. King.\par
"He's related to half the town. He'll blab for sure."\par
So Deputy King found himself tied up in the trunk of his own car.  He had no idea where it was going. This was extremely bad.  He had never been in such an awful situation before.\par
"Be strong and very courageous," he heard in the darkness. It was Pastor Hartmann, in a sermon in the past, before Deputy King stopped going to church. It was like he heard it with his ears. \par
A minute later the car stopped.  The trunk was opened and they pulled him out.\par
"Sorry about the little misunderstanding, Deputy King."\par
"Misunderstanding?"\par
"Yeah. You see - uh, we thought you were someone else. And we are going to help you take these coins to the US mint." This was a wild shot in the dark. \par
"No, I am supposed to take them to the bank. In Harrisonville." So he had the coins. Perfect.\par
"Right, right, right.  We are going to - that is, Mr. Staples - you know Mr. Staples?"\par
"He gave me the coins to take. Right."   \par
"Well, he asked us to make sure you got there ok. Ok? Only we thought someone had stolen them and you were an imposter. You are the real Deputy King, aren't you?"\par
"Yes, yes I am. "\par
"I think there are a lot of people running around imitating you.  We wanted to be sure you were the real thing."\par
"You see, I have the badge and everything."\par
"Yep. I suppose, after you take these coins in, you're going to get more? I mean, aren't there other coins like these in Nicholls?"  They had thought it over. No way could they succeed at stealing and keeping and cashing in these four coins. But others? And the mother lode?\par
"Well, no, I haven't heard of any."  And he would have told them if he had. And they knew it. \par
He liked knowing things. He liked telling people things he knew.\par
 The masked figure in the Nixon mask said, "I heard the kid was from Harrisonville. And the treasure is there, too."  They looked at Deputy King expectantly. \par
"That's what I heard, too." Deputy King liked pleasing people.  He guessed that's what people were saying, so probably he had heard it and forgotten it. If he had thrown Audrain or Freeman or the Ranch as bait, Deputy King would have as readily agreed. They failed to realize this. \par
"Not the Ranch. That is just a wild rumor."  Nixon again.\par
"Yeah. There is no proof the kid is from the Ranch."  They looked at each other and nodded. So that's why it had never been found on the Miller property. It had been in Harrisonville the whole time.  Biut where in Harrisonville?  It wasn't small.  It had been a lot smaller in 1865. So the Millers had emptied the wagons there and had left them on their own property to trick everyone. Slick.  Maybe it was in an old barn or in a mine or something that they could find  on a map.  \par
So Myron's truck escorted him to Harrisonville.  They explained that he did not need to tell anyone about the embarrassing mixup - he shouldn't tell anyone he got locked in his own trunk, now should he?  And Myron's truck turned at the exit, Deputy King going one way and the truck the other, so there would be no witnesses that anything had happened with their deputy.  They lived in Nicholls, too.\par
They would pay a little visit to the County Courthouse and look for old records.  \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 