{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 "Think they'll come?" Mike looked into the dark, up the entrance road. His voice was tense.  Gary noted to himself that Mike would need to learn to control that, as people and animals could pick it up.  Fear would spread in a herd of cattle in an instant.  Probably people were the same way.\par
Gary nodded.  Neither looked at the other.  The rain was cool, although it ran off his leather hat and jacket so he really felt little of it above the waist.  He was wearing chaps, which helped in front, but his backside- but this wasn't his first rainy night.  Mike, however, was a suburban kid, new to the Ranch, as you could tell from his new hat, at least.  Mike was nervous.  His jeans were soaked all around.  \par
Mr. Poller was standing in the center of the lane leading to the South Gate, twenty feet east of it, like a granite mountain, immovable, with the rain draining off his hair, his face and his beard.  Gary recognized some men with him, like Luke Kikker, another mountain, and men who worked for Mr. Poller.  Despite knowing him for years, Gary still called him Mr. Poller. \par
"Things are really ugly in town," Mr. Poller was told. "Sounds like a bunch of troublemakers think the treasure is at the Ranch and are going to turn the place upside down until they find it. Tonight."\par
"We can't have that happen."\par
"No."\par
There was silence, or at least as much silence as there can be on a dark night with the rain coming down.  The rain muffled all noise. After a while there were headlight reflections on the clouds, coming west from town.\par
"Two trucks, I'd say."\par
"Three."\par
"Yeah. Three."  They watched the reflections turn and head north, then west again.\par
"How do you know it's trucks?" Mike wanted to know.\par
"The reflection is different for cars, and for larger trucks.  I would say those are three pickup trucks.  Besides, that's Nicholls - what else do they drive there?"\par
Mike admitted that made sense.\par
"Ranch Security was more than willing to handle this, you know." Luke Kikker pointed out to the mountain in the middle of the lane.\par
"You said that before," the mountain said, with a deep rumble. "I think - I don't know yet, but I strongly suspect -  the problem started in my family, so it is my responsibility to fix it if I can."\par
"Just saying."\par
"And you can keep on talking."\par
"That's for sure," someone chimed in.  That brought a quick laugh, because Luke Kikker was known for not saying much. The laugh died away quickly.  The only sound was the rain. Gary could hear his own breathing.  It was so quiet he could hear his own heart beating.  He'd been told there were some in Nicholls who were no better than pirates: cold-blooded killing machines who had seen combat and had come back messed up, very violent, very dangerous. It was very bad news indeed if they had to stop them.  The unspoken agreement with the County Sherriff was the Ranch handled the Ranch and the county handled everywhere else in Nicholls County.  \par
Whether we live or die tonight, Gary thought, God will take care of us. Mike was looking scared.  Gary had escorted men off the Ranch before, but Mike had never faced this situation. Come to think of it, neither had Gary.  As far as he knew, no one had ever tried to force their way onto the Ranch.  It was usually welcome to all.  It didn't hurt that a lot of people just thought it was a few people in broken down trailers.  Until tonight. \par
And it rained on.  In the rain, after some time, there were headlights as three trucks picked came out along the county road that had been Main Street, their headlights reflected off the clouds.  They turned north and then west, and picked their way along the road in the dark rain, unfamiliar with the road even though it was straight.  Coarse joking, cursing and laughter came through the rain to the men silently waiting.  The trucks were full of armed men, men armed with guns and holding crow bars to rip the Ranch up with. They had been drinking and were loud and obscene.\par
"Hey cow-boy, heard you have some fine cow-girls looking for real men."\par
"Cupcakes melt in the rain. Better run back inside, little man."\par
"Run away! Run away!"  \par
 Mr. Poller did not move as the headlights lit him up in the middle of the road, which he seemed to fill. Suddenly he was suddenly huge and threatening in the light, with a forbidding expression, what the Marines call a war-face. \par
"Get out of the way! Run him over!" But the first truck stopped.  The driver saw a figure that he feared, and stopped. He cleared his eyes. No, it was only a man. Or was it? Eyes play tricks in the dark and the rain. He suddenly remembered another dark night when his patrol ran into another Marine patrol and they had almost had green on green.  It had happened too many times, those close calls. So he stopped, his eyes looking at a different night, a different road, a different country.  If he had only braked then, or swerved. \par
"We need to check for IEDs," he said. He looked round to see if anyone had heard him. \par
Men jumped off the back of the trucks and out of the cabs of the other two trucks. Most of them had rifles. They looked around but could see little outside the rain in the headlights. \par
"You need to leave now. You are not welcome here now. It is after dark. This is a place of peace." It rumbled, deep as thunder, out of Mr. Poller.  Gary was surprised.  When had he ever spoken so deeply?\par
They laughed and moved forward.  They stopped just out of arm reach of the lone figure. \par
"You gonna stop us, cupcake?"\par
One man stepped a little closer and sized up Mr. Poller.  He didn't like what he saw: a determined, large, muscular man without fear.  \par
"Come on, Harry, take him out," someone jeered.\par
Harry spat and balled his fists. He stepped a little closer. He looked like a puppy attempting to fight a volcano.\par
"Nobody needs to get hurt here." This was Mr. Poller. He spoke in a terrifyingly calm voice.   He was threatening them, which was nuts.  This was a voice of certain authority, to be disobeyed at their peril.\par
"Get back in your trucks and leave now and you will not be hurt."\par
They were not to be intimidated.  They saw the odds. They laughed and jeered. Harry glared at Mr. Poller.   He was the only one who had really looked at him, and he was not laughing or smiling.\par
The rain made the only noise.\par
Sam came out of the darkness and stood next Mr. Poller. Sam was almost as big as Isaiah'a papa.  He whistled.  A pack of dogs behind the them  snarled menacingly. Most could not be seen.  They sounded like large dogs, working dogs.  There were large dogs at the Ranch, everyone knew.  Well, everyone at the Ranch.  There were a lot of them out there in the dark.  But to Gary's ear there must have been hundreds: far more than could be pulled together, even if they collected all the dogs from every settlement.  He could not guess at how many there were.\par
"Stay, quiet." said Sam.  Immediately the dogs went silent. This power of command was not lost on the strangers.  They looked at each other, fingered their weapons, and looked out into the dark rain.  Even over the rain you could hear the loud breathing of the dogs. They on both sides of the road, behind Gary and he had caught the glint of eyes past the trucks.\par
 "No one needs to get hurt," said Mr. Poller, again.\par
Sam made a clicking noise with his tongue. \par
One dog, Buster, trotted up towards the strangers. He was a cross between a German shepherd and a Doberman, a working ranch dog. He had always been treated gently and he was more curious about them, more so than angry.  But no one messes with a strange, large dog. And he did not like these strangers, but he had been told not to growl. \par
Buster came up between Harry and Isaiah's papa.  He looked at Harry.\par
Harry pulled out his revolver and pointed it at Buster, less than a foot from Buster's nose.\par
Out of the darkness there was a growling, louder than the rain. There were dogs on all sides of them, large dogs.\par
"Harry, back off." Someone behind him sounded alarmed. The men and Buster stood silent.\par
Harry shifted his eyes, aware that there were any number of dogs in the darkness. But he wasn't one to back down, or one to not get what he wanted. \par
"I ain't leaving without what I came for," he said.\par
"What would that be?" Mr. Poller said quietly. "Life with God? Death without Him? The choice is yours. I think you could find either tonight.  But you are not entering the Ranch."\par
"What's making you do this? Are you crazy?" this question came out of the dark. Gary wondered which of these two it was directed at.\par
"Nothing is making me do this," Mr. Poller replied, still in that granite voice,"I am doing this freely.  I am a free man. Are you free, or are you slaves to your lust, greed, alcohol, dark minds?"\par
"Aw, man, a preacher," someone spat back.  There were other smirking comments.\par
At another click from Sam,  Stan and Ollie, two more of the Ranch's big dogs, came forward. Each took a position on either side of Harry.  \par
"Harry, you can't fire that fast." Someone was warning him.\par
Another set of clicks.  More dogs came forward, German shepherds, Labradors, Dobermans. These wandered among the strangers, who let them pass. There were more dogs than men, then there were at least twice as many, maybe more, all wandering through the crowd of men.\par
They made way for the dogs as the dogs walked among them,  wandering, sniffing, growling.  More dogs, dogs Gary had never seen, although he thought he knew every dog on the Ranch, joined them, some splashing across the rain-filled ditches, some leaping them.  They swirled around the men like dangerous whirlpools, each with a stranger in the middle.  The men held their hands above their waists instinctively. The dogs sniffed the men thoroughly, smelling dog and strange things on them that were new to them.  The men from Nicholls  stood still in the rain, not knowing what to do, fearing to provoke the dogs.  Some of the men jumped back into the backs of the trucks, and the dogs followed them up and then jumped out after a word Sam. More men jumped into the backs of the trucks. When they could, they got back into the cabs and the backs of the trucks, the dogs circling and watching them.  They did not like these men.  Sam allowed more dogs to come forward.  There seemed to be dogs everywhere, moving in and out of the headlights, barely visible in the dark.  The men from town were in the middle of a sea of large, growling dogs. \par
Harry was alone now, and he was aware of that.  Buster looked at him. Mr.  Poller looked at him.  Harry's revolver was still in his hand, but pointed at the ground.  \par
"Come on, Harry," someone said. Two of his buddies came up.\par
"Stand down, Harry," someone yelled.\par
Mr. Poller saw that Harry had made a decision. "Guess we made a wrong turn in the dark," Harry said. "Sorry to disturb you people." He put away his revolver. The two men with him nodded at Mr. Poller and "helped" him retreat.\par
The men started their trucks.  Ollie did not like that and barked. There was more barking and growls from the darkness on either side - how many dogs were there?  Buster slammed into the door of a truck, leaving a deep dent and rocking the truck. It was an older truck, full of rust, you could see.  Ollie sank his teeth into the front wheel cover of the same truck and tore it off.    The other two trucks went into reverse and got out of there.  The third truck, Buster's target, now lost its other front wheelcover to Stan. There was a dragging sound as other dogs found the muffler and dragged it forward.   The dogs circled the truck and growled and barked, showing their teeth when in the headlights, mostly unseen in the dark rain.  The men from Nicholls got that truck in reverse and fled.  The dogs gave chase with howls and growls, and disappeared into the darkness, following the trucks.\par
"Should I call the dogs off?"  Sam asked.\par
Mr. Poller shook his head. "I don't want them coming back here.  This will give them something to remember."\par
"Stay out of the ditch!" Mike yelled after the trucks. Gary shook his head. Kids.\par
"Do not rejoice when your enemy stumbles. Pray for those who persecute you." Mr. Poller quoted.\par
"I hope no one gets hurt."  Mike was nervous.\par
And they held the road until daybreak, standing in the rain.\par
The rest of the night was quiet.  \par
Who are these people, Gary wondered.  Here we are living innocently and they want - what did they want? God would deal with them.  He had always lived on the Ranch and had little experience with the outside world, and even the Ranch was strange to him in some ways, as he worked with cattle.  He did not work with the aurochs, as they required a particular dedication and patience that he did not have.  But he spent most of his life away from people, from temperment and choice, because there he could think.\par
Just after dawn, when the rain was down to a mist, two horsemen came up. Gary could tell these were auroch people, because there was no leather on them or the horses. \par
"Du callst," said one to Mr. Poller.\par
"Yes," Mr. Poller said,"I would like a few aurochs down here behind the gate tonight."\par
The man looked around. "There be no fence of strength - we shall have to be with them, and to home they must go ere sundown, for tomorrow be the Sabbath. To Dich is that something to live with?"\par
"It is."\par
Gary was startled when the man pulled out a walkie-talkie and said something in a Dutch dialect that he could not catch. He put it away and said, "Ten head be on the way, but Du muss make sure there is a path that no anger will come to them.  Do you know the needs?"\par
Mr. Poller nodded, "They must smell no leather'" here he pointed to Gary and Mike, and others,"and there must be no beef a-cooking.  And keep all children from them, and  especially women if they are in their fertile time, as they are always curious."\par
The man solemnly nodded. "Du hast been among us. Also, a man who has been with his wife, he must wash, lest the bull see him as an enemy.  But du knowst."\par
"I get around," Mr. Poller replied,"Even to Kfaar Kesef."\par
"We are closed to those not of us," the man said.  It would be no good talking these people up, because they were separatists.  Gary wondered how they had been talked into allowing aurochs to leave their Village of Silver.  He knew exactly where Kfaar Kesef was - it was two miles or so from where they were now, but outsiders were strongly discouraged from going near the place, as the aurochs were tempermental, bred for size and dairy ability, but not for disposition. Kfaar Kesef was in the middle of the large pastures, but there was also a separation zone people were supposed to keep out of, lest they provoke the aurochs. Unlike normal cattle, when one proved truculent, it was not slaughtered. It was patiently worked with.  There were simply too few of them.  On the other hand, their milk was amazingly good.\par
Mr. Poller told Gary and the others who were wearing leather to go scrub off the leather smell and change when the aurochs could be heard.  That did not take long.  They came up from the south.  Gary was not used to seeing them, and everyone hung around as long as possible.  When they could be seen, a mass of muscle of horn, surrounded by riders on whitish-yellow horses, the  long yellow braids on the riders and in the horses' manes visible even from this far, Mr. Poller scattered the watching men with a word of command and they fled.  Even from here you could see those horns were nothing to mess with.  They would make a Longhorn look small. \par
\par
A few minutes later Gary was back, dressed in jeans, tennis shoes, ball cap and t shirt. The rain meant little to him, as he spent most of his life in the elements.  He would be needed, possibly, as a Ranch hand.  Melanos was nearby, for one thing, and no one knew how he and the aurochs would view each other. \par
The aurochs were closer now, so Gary could see them.\par
 The lone bull was herding his cows, keeping them together. He was majestic, the Lord of All the Earth, with no enemies, no fears, no one not in submission to him. He was ahead of the cows, around, them, behind them, issuing commands in the form of snorts, head held high, crowned with a magnificent set of horns: the left one curled oddly, but both ended in wickedly sharp points.\par
 The riders kept a respectful distance away and allowed the bull to speed up the cows or slow them down, or head them off if they began to spread more thinly than he wanted.  The whole scene was out of a different age, with the yellow-braided riders on their yellow-braided horses, each mane distinctly dyed and painted so they could be told apart at a distance, he supposed.  Each animal carried three or four stocky white tick birds on its spine, and the birds were swaying with the motion of the animal. They were also continually diving off the aurochs, hunting insects, and then trying to get back where they were. But if they had been in a good place, it was likely another tickbird was there already, and so there was some angry flapping of wings.  They would also fly between animals. The effect was that the aurochs traveled surrounded by white birds.\par
The riders also sang as they came.  It was not in a language Gary knew.  The whole scene seemed set in some other world, or some far country or long, long ago.\par
Gary spotted a much younger bull with them, a calf, one who would lower his head almost to the ground in submission whenever the big bull approached him.  But he kept to the middle of the pack.  The large udders of the cows swayed beneath them.  A few calves without horns, smaller than the bull, also came, close to their mothers. \par
Then there was the singing, a strange song either in Dutch or Koine or some tongue understood by the aurochs, because they would snort as if understanding it.\par
Then Melanos saw them, and bellowed a challenge.  Instantly the bull auroch stiffened, searched for his challenger. He returned a bellow. There were cries of "Nebuchadnezzar! Nebuchadnezzar!" from the riders, as if that was his name, but he ignored them. He even ignored his cows, and came forward, bellowing.  He was huge, a head higher than Melanos and a rack to match a Longhorn, if any were that large.  He saw Melanos.\par
"That fence is strong enough for Melanos, but I don't know if it would hold than bull," Gary told Mr. Poller, now standing next to him. Mr. Poller said, "It was originally built for aurochs - they were here for a few months.  It should be fine."\par
Nebuchadnezzar walked up to the fence and looked down at Melanos. Melanos was larger than just about all other Angus, but Nebuchadnezzar towered over him. Melanos was polled but there were those wickedly sharp horns on the auroch.\par
Nebuchadnezzar snorted and stomped his food. He bellowed in Melanos' face, and the Angus turned and ran to the far corner of his paddock as if to hide.  There was a peculiar snorting  that was matched by the cows.\par
"They are laughing," one of the two original riders said.  Nebuchadnezzar now put his head up on the rider's lap, and the rider scratched his throat.  Nebuchadnezzar gave a deep sign of contentment, and then turned carefully, as if knowing his horns were dangerous to the rider, and made sure his herd was all there.\par
"He will stay where I am," that rider said again,"My English is not so good" here he switched to Koine Greek, but his accent was strange and he used some words that Gary did not know, possibly brought in from some other language.  Gary's Koine was strict, meaning it was only what had been used in the LXX and the New Testament, but some Eppers regarded it as more of a living language from there, inventing phrases and bringing in vocabulary in new ways. The man was saying they should put up string to keep people out of where the aurochs were, because people were curious? foolish? unkowing? around them, and would come look if they could, but they should keep their distance.  More than a string, and the aurochs would take it as a challenge and knock it down.  And they were hungry for ---- and thirsty for water.  They were hungry for hay. Carrots. Apples.  A cart would be coming from Kfaar Kefes with food. He and another rider would be with the aurochs, the other riders were going to return to Kfaar Kefes.  \par
Nebuchadnezzar had never met Gary before.  It would be all right, because he was with someone he knew.  But Nebuchadnezzar began snuffling him, starting with his head and eventually, turning him, gently with his head, all of him head to toe.  He was told not to resist.  Then the cows did the same thing to him. Each was provided with a carrot.  The rider seemed to have a large supply.\par
They all briefly sniffed Mr. Poller.  No one else was allowed in the stringed-off area.  The bull explored its limits, sniffing at the gate, sniffing at the siding on the hanger, sniffing the trailer window - it was one of Poller's, and Gary saw Isaiah briefly inside, before he was pulled away- and Nebuchadnezzar was satisfied, so he defecated enormously in the middle of the area. As if a signal, all the cows, and the young bull, did as well.\par
"They are at home," the rider smiled.  He was now down from his horse.\par
"I'm Gary," said Gary, holding out my hand.  The rider looked at him and spoke in his version of Koine.  Gary missed some words. "We do not give out our names outside our sssssss," he said. "It is no xxxx for yyyy zzzzzz."\par
"I see," said Gary. He noticed Melanos was peeking out like a small dog from behind a tree, so he walked over to the paddock. He was not followed.\par
Melanos slowly and carefully walked over to the fence and accepted a carrot from Gary. "That's ok, Melanos," he soothed the bull.  Then he found the  auroch bull towering over him,  bending down and snuffing Melanos.  To the bull's mind they were now friends. A friend of a friend is a friend, so Melanos was a friend.  But the bull also needed Melanos to understand who was boss here, him being a bull and a potential rival.  The huge bull placed his his mouth on Melanos' neck and forced him to the ground, leaning over the fence.  He held him for a minute, snorted and let him go. Melanos stood, shaken.\par
The huge bull snorted again and turned away, satisfied, until he saw the young bull and did the same to him. \par
"How do you get them to go where you want?" Gary asked the nameless rider, using Koine. His Koine was rusty and he hardly ever had a conversation in it.  There were some settlements where it was the only common language, and as a field hand he sometimes had to talk to those folk, but it usually didn't amount to more than 'Did you see a cow? Which way did it go?" and then "that way" and "thanks".  The rider spoke with a strange mix of Koine and German or Dutch or something like them. Sometimes when a Koine word perplexed Gary he would use a Dutch type word instead.\par
"We don't. They go where they kkkkk. We can, usually, change what they uuuu.  They are not - zzzzz? Yes, that is the word. They are zzzzzz. We work with them, we aaaaa our wills on them. We ginocccc each other. Neither is mmmm to the other. Nebuchadnezzar wanted to come see mich." Here the same nuzzled the rider's ear.  A large tongue slurped on his arm before the beast moved off. \par
"He knows his name?"\par
"Oh, yes. And these are his cows, not ours.  Du wouldst not want him to think you wanted one, oh, no. Not at all.  That would not be good."\par
"I see."\par
"And do not make eye xxxx with the cows.  Look them not in the eye. Do not xxx them, that is, walk directly to a cow,  or make him think du hast any xxxxx in his cows.  Do not call to them - and most do not touch them.  Do not xxxx them.  Claim them. He watches when we milk them."\par
"These are dairy cows?"\par
The rider was perpexed by that word. "We milk them at home - we did this morning, and shall in the - the morgen. But this be a strange place and our big friend is sheltering.. protective."\par
"How do you get a veterinarian close-" But Mr. Poller interjected, "Gary, that is enough questions for now.  That is more conversation than I think they are comfortable with."\par
The rider nodded, thanked Mr. Poller, nodded at Gary and walked away.\par
"You are on crowd control," said Mr. Poller.  He had that right, being the general superintendent of the Ranch.  \par
"Off the string," he told a group of staring youngsters. "In fact, walk away slowly."  They did. He'd been up all night and still had not eaten since dinner last night.  He felt in his pocket for a carrot and bit the tip off and tasted it.  It had not been washed and he was not sure of the smell.  But here was the young bull.  Gary fed him the carrot and became aware that Nebuchadnezzar was watching, but made no move.  Should he have given a first carrot to Nebuchadnezzar?  Although clearly still a calf, the young un matched shoulder to shoulder to Gary in height.  The calf nuzzled him and Gary fed him the rest of his carrots, one by one.  Seeing no more carrots, the calf licked him, leaving saliva and carrot shreddings on his shirt, and turned and rejoined the herd, weaving through it towards - Gary remembered he should not be watching the cows.  His mama was there.  Nebuchadnezzar was now sniffing the fence around Melanos' enclosure.  It had been built strong enough to keep an auroch originally.\par
More kids.  Were they even from Ha'ir Bira? But the middle school and high school were here. \par
He waved them away, but more kept coming.  They lined the string south of the Hanger, and then in between the Hanger and the trailers, and then between the trailers and Napoleon's paddock.\par
"Isaiah-" this was Mr. Poller.  His son had slipped under the string and faster than thought had swung himself up by the horn onto the neck of Nebuchadnezzar.\par
"Snurrrt?" Nebuchadnezzar said, puzzled.  He sniffed a stranger, but he could not locate him. He looked this way and that, turned around, turned completely around the other way, the boy grinning, riding his shoulders. He was so light.\par
One of the attendents was instantly on his horse and came quickly up behind Nebuchadnezzar's horns and grabbed the boy, who began to protest but was quickly calmed as he was handed to now-nearby father.\par
Nebuchadnezzar looked around, puzzled.  There was a stranger smell, he seemed to think, but it was with a friend, so it was a friend.  And he went back to making sure his cows were together as a unit in this tight place.\par
Gary shared a room with Jeff in one of the old trailers.  Ha'ir Bira was the original settlement, which had been tents before he was born. He remembered when everyone lived in the crazy maze of trailers.  Most were now empty, many were gone, but here and there you found someone who called their trailer home, like the Pollers with their assemblage of trailers, or Boom, who found his trailers and their adaptations easier to live with than to move on with, especially for an old man with a lot of stuff he did not want to move or get rid of.\par
Gloomy Jeff was there.  Jeff had two moods: either he was unshakably happy or depressed.  Jeff described it as borderline bipolar.  He was gloomy now.  "Like leaves in the wind, so much of my life has blown away, never to be seen again. Things I have hoped for, longed for, worked on, made promises for myself  and others about, vanished with only a memory or a pain or a shame still standing.  What can I do that will have eternal consequences, reward or significance? Grant me, O Lord, to know what will pass away and what will remain. Allow me to answer well on the day of judgement; grant me such grace."\par
"Amen," Gary returned.  Best to go along with such a sober fellow. "Bad day?"\par
"No, and it is only two in the afternoon."\par
"I was up all night, and I just now grabbed a bite to eat, and I am headed for bed."\par
"Is it true they brought down the au-" but Gary was asleep.  \par
\par
"You've lived here all your life and you know the place as well as anyone."\par
"I've never been a tour guide before."\par
"Now's the time to start.  His name is Deem Futz, and you are to give him a quiet tour of the Ranch."\par
"What? The whole place? You know some settlements don't even allow visitors. And no one has ever counted them all. Second Samuel 24 and all that."\par
"No, just the central ones, the ones Ha'ir Bira works with regularly."\par
"How long?"\par
"Maybe an hour.  Just a drive through.  Answer his questions, show him around.  He is the pastoral candidate at the Epper Church."\par
"A pastoral candidate there? Is the rumor about him being a liaison pastor true?"\par
"Yes.  We may have a pastor again."\par
"We have not had one here since the mid-nineties.  What changed?"\par
"We have changed, and the Eppers have changed. I hope their doctrinal witchhunt is at an end - many are seeking to reunify the Epper divisions again - ones the doctrincal purists created."\par
"Ok, I will show him around.  You can't get a highway car to Kfaar Even - it has to be either a big truck or horseback or motorwagon.  Unless they filled in those ruts."\par
"They haven't.  And that is a good point.  There is no road to Hillside, just footpaths, and as you know there don't want horses there."\par
"You better skip it, then, in an hour.  Too bad, because those are our theologians."\par
\par
There was something strange about Deem Futz, something inscrutably lacking, something common to everyone, such as being there.  Gary had not noticed him - he noticed Elder Pfingster, hard not to, but he had thought him alone until he pointed to Deem Futz, standing next to him.  They shook hands.  Gary got a sense of weakness and indecision in that handshake.  So this is our pastoral candidate. He hoped there was more to the man than this. He told himself there must be, that surely there was more than an empty suit. \par
Gary climbed into the motorwagon and started it. \par
"I haven't seen one of these before," Deem Futz said. What a name, Gary noted to himself. The only thing remarkable about the - stop it, he said to his interior voice.  His job now was to take this man on a tour.   He hoped no one would see them.\par
"This is a motorwagon," Gary replied.  It was something like a small motorized buckboard with six huge wheels and a canopy. "We use them around the Ranch because the roads generally are not much more than two ruts with a high mound in between, mostly used by large trucks."\par
"Are they locally made?"\par
"Yes. Ranch made. There is a settlement somewhere up north - I mean, in the northern part of the Ranch, not Montana or Wisconsin - that builds them. They are not sold or used outside of the Ranch."\par
"Why not?"\par
Gary smiled. "We have enough legal trouble already.  There is a pack of lawyers that deals with the feds and the state government.  The Ranch is all private property, despite all of us, and a motorwagon does not meet what the feds want in a road vehicle.  But it works here. And I don't think many people would be interested in a vehicle with a top speed of forty miles an hour, anyway."\par
"Probably not.  How big is the Ranch?"\par
"Well, it is half of this county - from the Cass County border all the way down to Bates County, and from the Kansas state line to halfway across.  Some people - like Mr. Poller - could tell you how many acres are here."\par
"How many settlements are there?"\par
"We haven't counted.  Nor do we know how many people are here - consider 2 Samuel 24.  That always comes up.  Every ten years there is the federal census, and there is a big argument about what to do about it.  But there are also some Ranch type settlements we trade with that are not on Ranch property - Eppers take seriously the 'be fruitful and multiply' commandment, and since we tend to be really healthy, we have to spin off a lot of new settlements to keep the size down."\par
"So you hold to the small settlement theory?"\par
"Oh, yes. If a settlement has over two hundred people, they form a second settlement. They don't bother necessarily telling other people that they have formed a new settlement."\par
"I see.  What do you do?"\par
"I am a field hand - meaning I spend most of my time in the field with the cattle.  Right now the herd I work with is pulled in because of the drought.  I'm working for Mr. Poller, taking some security classes, and pulling some security shifts.  There was an incident Friday night, and people have reported strangers on the Ranch - people up to no good, it seems, who run off when you try to go up to them."\par
"Well. This is Ha'ir Bira - Hebrew for Capital City, or something like that.  This is where it all began.  This gate was the only gate for a long time.  We call it South Gate or Old Gate.  After Friday night I think it will remain locked, and a better gate will be built further east. That's the talk.  These hangers are exactly that - old B-52 hangers we got years ago and we use them. The third one we use for the church.  Not the church for the whole Ranch, but for Ha'ir Bira and some other settlements who come here.  Most of the settlements have their own services. Some do not allow outsiders to attend.  Not all the settlements speak English, either. There are a few Russian-speaking and Dutch and German settlements, I hear, but I don't know where.  That could be rumor.  These trailers were what people moved into after the tent city, before things got too big and they broke the place up into settlements."\par
"Who made that decision?"\par
"I guess the Council of Twelve."\par

\pard "I'm not clear on what they do. \lang1033 Do they resolve problems that weren't be solved inside a settlement, or between settlements?  Do they provide overall guidance at all?"\par
\par
Gary shook his head. "Maybe some.  But Epper settlements have always been independent, as you know, and if there is a problem, they always work it out between them.  I have never heard of anyone appealing to the Council of Twelve to solve something.  They would tell the people to figure it out."\par
\par
"So what do they do?"\par
\par
"Years ago we had a man here named Paul de le Grande.  He was fond of what he called the 'self-organizing principle': things tend to organize themselves more efficiently than if you impose your plan from the outside.  It seems to work.  In the principle you only impose organization when it doesn't happen naturally, or happens unhealthily.  So the Council may encourage healthy things and prune, but they leave the planting and watering to others.  They are also judicial, I suppose, for when something is so severe it cannot be settled within a particular community, or involves more than one, but that would probably be embarrassing to admit.  I don't know, because I have little to do with them. But I think they use negotiation and persuasion and threat of exile.  We have no jail, but there is also no trial by jury, and if we have laws on the books I don't know what they are.  Each settlement has its own code, which is the Basic Ten, and deals with violations as they see fit."\par
\par
"You said this is private property. Who owns it?"\par
\par
"The Council of Twelve."\par
\par
"I see.  And how does someone get on the Council of Twelve? Is there an election or something?"\par
\par
"Oh, no.  The election is divine, if you mean do people vote.  I'm not sure how people get on the Council -  I think the pastor selects someone."\par
\par
"But you have no pastor."\par
\par
"True.  And there are vacancies on the Council of Twelve."\par
\par
"I see."\par
\par
"Well, this is \lang9 Kfaar Mayam.  They take care of the water system for the Ranch.  I neglected to tell you the middle school and high school, and the pharmacy and a medical center are in Ha'ir Bira.  The kids call it Hair Burr, which is kind of funny."\par
\par
"Kfaar Mayam is Hebrew for - water town."\par
\par
"Exactly.  You'll notice the prominent water tower.  Each settlement has a specialty that strengthens the whole Ranch.  They take care of the water system, sewage and storm drainage everywhere on the Ranch.  We are on the high point - this is where the old POW camp had its water tower, and I think they used the same footings for the new one - and the sewage treatment plant is a long way south and east of here."  Gary decided he didn't need to hear about the old latrine system or the honey bucket brigade, which had ended before he was born.  He thought it was funny but kept it to himself.  This was a pastor.  Pastor candidate.\par
\par
Kfaar Mayam was mainly a circle of stone houses, garages on the bottom and living quarters upstairs.  There were two or three greenhouses - none as large as those further south, and not as many.  A man got up from the shade of the gateway into the circle and walked their way.\par
\par
"We better say hello," Gary said,"Or we'll be reported to security." Gary smiled. He WAS security.\par
\par
There was a beep behind them - it was a dump truck.  Gary moved the motorwagon up a little and to the side and let the truck pass.\par
\par
"We have these passing places along the roads - none of the roads are two lane on the Ranch."\par
\par
A minute later they were within clear identification of the man, who recognized Gary and waved.  \par
\par
"Tag," he said, when Gary stopped next to him.\par
\par
"Tag yourself," Gary replied.\par
\par
"Guten Tag: German for Good Day.  Around here it's used for hello sometimes."\par
\par
"Well, it may be peculiar to Kfaar Mayam."\par
\par
"I've heard it elsewhere.  You guys are probably infecting the whole Ranch."\par
\par
"Yeah, we get everywhere.  Who is this?"\par
\par
"Mr. Deem Futz, this is my good friend and esteemed colleague, Pastrami."\par
\par
"That is P.A. Stromboli to anyone who can pronounce it.  But, yeah, I go by Pastrami. It is a pleasure to meet you."\par
\par
"Likewise - Pastrami."\par
\par
"Deem Futz is the pastoral candidate for the Epper Church in Nicholls. He may be the liaison out here, too."\par
\par
"Really? I guess I should have put on a tie."\par
\par
"Nuts."\par
\par
"Nuts to you.  You got time for a tour?"\par
\par
"A quickie.  We only have about forty minutes before I need to be back, and we have some other places to show him."\par
\par
"Well...We have a water tower."\par
\par
"We can see that, Pastrami."\par
\par
"I have some wrenches in increasing order in my tool box.  Those are the two most exciting things in Kfaar Mayam.  Of course, there is my beloved wife and children."\par
\par
"Of course."\par
\par
"But she is not guest-ready.  I would not advise dropping in on her."\par
\par
"Of course."\par
\par
Gary took Deem them to the north side of Kfaar Mayam, where three settlements were visible, little clusters of stone buildings in the distance, widely separated.\par
\par
"This I think is the only place you can see four settlements at once.  The only place I know of, anyway.  Up north is Kikker Industries, which is not a settlement but a factory and research complex.  Some people commute from settlements to work there; also people from Nicholls and other places work there.  But here you see Kfaar Kinor, the music village: they have a music school.  They also make instruments, particularly woodwinds and string instruments. No brass.  They have Sunday services with Ha'ir Bira but otherwise they pretty much keep to themselves.  If I took you there they would insist on giving you a concert in your honor. West, to your left, is Charitopolis.  They church with Ha'ir Bira.  They make and repair small scale machinery.  And to the southwest is Kfaar Even, the town of stone, where they have a big quarry operation.  They also teach stone cutting and do most of the building construction around here, wood being scarce. They have a home church.  On a clear day, if it weren't for that hill, you could see Kfaar Kesef."\par
\par
"Silver, I suppose?"\par
\par
"No."  Gary seemed reluctant to say it.\par
\par
"Someone said that there are aurochs out here.  Is that it?"\par
\par
"Yes.  But they don't speak English, and visits are not encouraged unless you have business there.  With all due respect, your visit today would be considered 'tourism' and might hurt future appearances."\par
\par
Deem looked like he would like to see the aurochs. "Most people would like to see them," Gary said,"but few, even at the Ranch, have.  They are very dangerous and touchy. There are precautions you have to take around them, like no leather.  There is a whole list."\par
\par
"No leather?"\par
\par
"Yeah.  They think you killed their mother or something, and take vengeance."\par
\par
"I see."\par
\par
They passed in sight of Gnadendorf (fine linen) and Hillside (theology) but they didn't have time to visit properly, and an improper visit would not go over well.\par
\par
"Thank you for the tour, Gary.  Is there anyting I could pray for you for?"\par
\par
"Yeah.  There is."\par
\par
Deem waited. \par
\par
 How was it that Deem knew?  Did he?  Gary had revealed nothing, absolutely nothing, about hinself, like a good Epper, but it also hid some pain.\par
\par
"I often wonder why evil people prosper, and good people suffer."\par
\par
"So did Job. And Jeremiah.  Something more particular, perhaps?"\par
\par
"Well, yes."  He had not spoken of it in years. "I lost my wife in childbed.  Her first. Our first."\par
\par
"I am sorry."\par
\par
"It's been five years. I'm not over it."\par
\par
"You are never over grief.  It is always with us.  We need to grow to handle it."  Out of anyone else's mouth Gary would have walked away.  But somehow...Deem Futz knew.  Is this what a pastor is, Gary wondered.\par
\par
"I will pray for you.  If you want to talk, well, I wish I could say I will be here.  Do you have someone you can talk to?"\par
\par
"No."\par
\par
"I will pray for you."\par
\par
"Thank you. How about yourself?"\par
\par
"Well - I am \i tentatively\i0  the pastor-candidate.  They actually called me in at 6 AM Monday morning and told me I am the one and only pastor-candidate.  At the right time it is likely, I suppose, that I will actually be the pastor."\par
\par
"It must be hard - like they are undercutting you or something."\par
\par
"I don't think they realize that. I think they are trying to do what is right."\par
\par
"My Dad is one of the elders - Sandy Sands.  For what it's worth, I think you would be a fine pastor. I"ll tell him so."\par
\par
"Thank you. Also, I am going to be the liaison here with the denomination - not the pastor, but the liaison."\par
\par
"What does that mean?"\par
\par
"I wish I knew.  Do you know Aaron Muis?"\par
\par
"I think so - no, I don't."\par
\par
"He is the bishop's representative.  He lives in Kansas City and travels all over.  A liaison is sort of the reverse - I would live here and go up to Kansas City to meet with the bishop and the presbytery."\par
\par
"That is close to being a pastor."\par
\par
"Well, yes. Close. I am to preach in town and here on Sunday, at Ha'ir Bira.  That has been discussed with your Council of Twelve.  Thank you for the tour."\par
\par
"My pleasure."  Gary wondered what it would be like to have a pastor again.  He remembered Peter Muis, striding down the aisle, surrounded by his big security guards so laity wouldn't get close and then taking their positions at the foot of the stage.  Not Deem Futz.  He could not imagine Deem Futz loving power.  \par
\par
Gary saw his friend Mike Smirnov.  They'd grown up together, only Mike had gone away to school and gotten a job with a bank up in Harrisonville. Gary had wondered if the love of money had crept in there, over the years.  \par
\par
"Hey, Gary."\par
\par
"Mike."\par
\par
"Did you hear about the coins some kid tried to pay for a banana split with?"\par
\par
"Yeah.  That seems to be a big item these days.  We had some trouble at the old gate Friday night with men wanting to break in and find them."\par
\par
"Uh-huh.  Mr. Johnson - you know Mr. Johnson - had a meeting this morning.  Somehow he got the coins.  They are real, really gold.  That set him off again.  He is still angry that the Mueller family got religion and deeded the Ranch to Jake Profim - the old man has been trying to get this land for over fifty years.  He is obsessed with the treasure that is supposed to be here.  The lost city of El Dorado or the civil war bandits or gold from Santa Fe or whatever other legend you have heard - it's weird how so many people have stories about gold out here."\par
\par
"It is.  None has been found.  Ever.  They've searched high and low.  I don't believe it ever was anything more than a story."\par
\par
"Me too, until I saw these three 1865 gold Eagle coins."\par
\par
"You saw them? And they are genuine? Wow. No wonder those guys came calling."\par
\par
"Mr. Johnson went on and on about how he has tried to buy Nicholls to get to the Ranch, and tried to buy Kikker Industries, but it is part of the Ranch, and he has filed lawsuits and called government agencies to get you all evicted -"\par
\par
"There have been rumors.  People have wondered.  But you actually work for him."\par
\par
"Yeah, I do.  But he pushed me too far today."\par
\par
"How so."\par
\par
"He was boasting about that bank he ruined, and the owner killed himself: he chuckled.  The man is evil. Today I realized it.  And then he told me that he had bought me, body and soul, if I had a soul, and he owned me. I was his property and his slave.  Or I was fired, and he would track me down and see that I was taken care of .  He's taken care of other people, you know. He doesn't do it directly.  A guy named Eddie does some work for him.  Eddie runs a bar out in the wild areas east of Harrisonville.  I've been there - it's nothing good."\par
\par
"So why are you telling me all this? I think you should tell the Council of Twelve."\par
\par
"I did.  I don't think they believed me.  But they told me to go back and work for him, and tell them what was happening."\par
\par
"Can you do that?"\par
\par
"Well, he told me to come down here and spy on the Ranch.  I just feel sick over the whole thing."\par
\par
"I can believe that.  I'll pray for you."\par
\par
"What good will that do?"\par
\par
"You would be surprised.  You were raised here. You know."\par
\par
"Gary, it's been a long time since I was here.  The world is a different place than I thought it was.  People at the Ranch don't understand that."\par
\par
"Well, we know to honor God from the heart, not just with the lips."\par
\par
"So I think it is more honest if I do neither. If He does not have my heart, neither then should I praise him."  With that, Mike turned away.  \par
\par
When he was about four steps away Gary called to his back,"So you would rather Johnson had your heart?"\par
\par
At that, Mike stopped walking for a second, but then  kept walking. He did not turn around, he said nothing, he just kept walking.  Gary prayed for his friend as he walked away.\par
\par
His phone buzzed.\par
\par
"You are needed at Melanos' pasture, as in now.  Five minutes ago. Where are you?"\par
\par
"Two minutes away. On my way."\par
\par
"Copy. Out."\par
\par
With long swift strides he headed there.  He passed the Poller's.\par
\par
"Where you going so fast?" Isaiah called from the porch.\par
\par
"To Melanos."\par
\par
"I can't leave the house," Isaiah said glumly.  But Gary was already past. Not surprising.  He would be surpised if Isaiah could sit down.  That bull-riding stunt the other day was unbelievable.  Somehow Isaiah was mixed up in this coin business, which wasn't all that surprising.  If anyone could find the coins, it would be Isaiah.  He was tempted to turn around and ask him, but after the conversation with Mike, he wondered if people would want to know exactly what his interest was.  And he was in a hurry.\par
\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 "Did anyone see it happen?"  Gary asked Mike. \par
"No. I looked out and there he was, lying down in the pasture, with Melanos grunting at him. I got you. Now here we are."  Mike was supposed to be watching.   Gary gave him a look that said he should have seen it all.\par
"Sorry."\par
"We'll deal with that later."\par
"How are we going to get him out of there?"  Good question, anyway. \par
"That's easy." Gary whistled for the dogs.  They moseyed out of the shade under the new canopy, reluctant at having been summoned.  They sort of wandered over to Melanos, who was standing over a figure lying facedown in the dirt.  The man was dressed like an outsider and a pickup truck was parked just outside the fence.   The fence, Gary noted to himself, was well within Ranch property. Maybe he didn't know that the Ranch went all the way to the Nicholls City limit? Not likely.  And why try to cross through the paddock instead of climbing the gate?  Something was off here. Very off. \par
The bull grunted and pushed at the man. Melanos probably thought he was being gentle.  He did not like people in his paddock, most especially strangers.  Even a polled bull was very dangerous on the basis of his weight alone, let alone his hoofs or just a swing of his head. One heavy club, that. \cf1\par
\cf0 "What is harder is trying to figure out what kind of a fool goes in where there is a strange bull."  Mike stated the obvious.  Well, everyone starts somewhere. \par
Gary whistled again, and the dogs got the bull to go stand in his shade under the trees.  Melanos flicked his tail from time to time, but stood there.  He watched the men. They watched him.  Mike looked anxiously from Gary to the bull to the man on the ground and back again. There was a silence, broken only by a tickbird that was thinking about checking over the man: advancing, then retreating.  Finally it decided to go see Melanos, and it, too, watched the men from his back. \par
"We need a stretcher," Gary told Mike,"there's one in the vet office." \par
Melanos watched them open the gate and pass through it and close it.  \par
"Don't wave that around;, here, let me take one end."   They walked slowly. No movement from Melanos.\par
They saw no blood on the man. He was wearing a sleeveless black  t-shirt, which Gary thought was pretty stupid in the July sun.  He had some dirt on in - it looked like Melanos thought he was a toy and had rolled him over several times.  Gary looked over at Melanos, now surrounded by his dog buddies, standing in the shade.  He was several hundred feet away. A bull is most dangerous when within twenty feet. But you could never really trust a bull, particularly a bottle-fed bull.  They tend to think they are people and have no respect for people.  Gary suspected Melanos thought he was a dog more than a person, but that did not decrease the danger.  His bloodline was so high and his physical form so excellent that he was a superior stud.  He had, until now, never given any indication that he would hurt someone.  Bulls that gore go to the slaughterhouse and never get a second chance.  They had always been careful with Melanos.     They would have to get the man out.  That might take some time. Later they would have to determine if Melanos was now a problem.  Asking the man what had happened could wait. Long pants.  Denim.  Boots.  Empty holster.  Empty?\par
There was probably a sidearm somewhere in the paddock.  Had he dropped it when he climbed the fence, maybe, and Melanos had come? Yeah: there it was, just outside the fence, like the man had climbed the fence only to discover that he had lost his weapon and he had a bull to deal with.  \cf1\par
\cf0 Gary and Mike laid the stretcher  down beside him. He still had not moved an inch.\par
"Mister, are you ok?"\par
The man did not respond.\par
"What if he has a back injury? Maybe we should wait for somebody who can evaluate him better?"\par
Gary shook his head.  He \cf1  \cf0 looked at Melanos, still watching.  If he got too curious, that could be dangerous. Every dog was watching, ears up.  That meant Melanos might be about ready to move.\par
"Let's get Melanos in the pen."\par
Gary wished Sam was here, who was better at whistling than he was, but Sam was elsewhere. He whistled, and the dogs looked at him stupidly.  He whistled again, and this time they got it: the dogs escorted the big bull  into the pen. Mike locked it and came back.\par
Gary was looking at a thin, wicked looking knife. "I checked his arms and legs for broken bones. Nothing. But I found this in his boot."\par
"Nicholls folk don't carry those. "   Gary would not know. He had rarely been outside the Ranch. He knew more about ancient Athens than Nicholls. \par
"And he does not have a ball cap."\par
"Not from Nicholls?"\par
He had no hat at all.  They looked around.  It had not been knocked off. \par
"That's not a Nicholls' hair cut either."  Gary shrugged.  He wouldn't know. Mike would: he went into town on errands sometimes.    \par
"Best thing to do is to try to wake him up and see if he is hurt."\par
"Mister-" said Gary, bending down.\par
Gary found the man's left arm grabbing his right leg hard as the man pulled his legs under himself  and started springing to his feet, with his other hand clenched in a fist that was swinging round to Gary.  Gary shifted all his weight to his left leg and kicked hard with his right into the man's unprotected solar plexus.  He blocked the swing, grabbed the incoming arm and made the man's face meet his right elbow. The man fell back down and felt his nose.\par
"All that martial arts stuff pays off, sometimes."  Gary spent a lot of time in the Security dojo.  He worked Ranch Security for a reason.  It was amazing how many people tried to get on Ranch property.  The Ranch was very friendly if you came through the gates.  Otherwise, not so friendly.  Ranch Security was always shortstaffed, it seemed.  It was a big place. Gary looked at Melanos, who was now looking away. Gary quickly followed his gaze: Pete was on his way, rounding the south end of the Hanger in a trot and headed to the gate. \par
The man was glaring.  His nose was bleeding, and Gary guessed it was broken. But the fight was not out of him.  Pete was here, looking around.  He picked up the sidearm, emptied the chamber, pocketed all the bullets and then came over. He looked at the man. The man looked at Pete. Gary imagined he thought Pete was a dumb yokel: straw hat, overalls, big belly, round spectacles, work gloves.  The worst mistake an opponent could ever make was to underestimate him.  But Pete didn't give a rip about what most people thought of him. He had a grass stem in his teeth that he waved up and down as he looked at the man. He looked at Gary as if to say it was his move.  \par
"This is a brand new weapon. Never been fired since it left the factory." Pete examined the weapon. "It still has the little plastic pieces you take off when you purchase a weapon."\par
"Huh," said Gary.  The likeliest story was that he had heard about the gold, had bought himself a pistol and decided to come down here and force people to lead him to it. He had probably figured the gate was watched, so he decided to slip over the fence a ways away from it, not seeing Melanos.  And Melanos, of course, was curious about a stranger showing up. The man played dead and here they were.  \par
Gary spoke. "Well, mister, your back isn't broken.  We are going to get you out of this pasture and then someone will want to know why you were here to begin with.  Now, get on this stretcher."\cf1\par
\cf0 "I can walk," the man said angrily, still feeling his nose.  Pete handed him a handkerchief, but the man threw it down. \par
"That's my ma's fine linen," Pete said,"Now don't you go throwing it down." He picked it up and pocketed it.  He was now standing behind the man, who had sat up.\cf1\par
\cf0 "You just lie down on the stretcher.  You are trespassing." \par
The man looked away with a disgusted look. He tried to get up but Gary pushed him back down.\par
"Let's be reasonable.  There are three of us, nine dogs, and only one of you," said Gary.\par
"And one bull," offered Pete.\par
The man spat and cursed. \par
"You are going to get on the stretcher."\par
"Ain't gonna happen."\par
Gary whistled.  The dogs started trotting over. Melanos bellowed. He wanted to be with his pack.\par
"You want to go another round? The dogs really don't like people fighting Ranch folk."\par
"You don't know what you are dealing with.," the man said,"the smartest thing you can do is to let me go.  Some people really won't like you doing this."\par
"I guess we should tell them how you dropped your weapon while climbing into the paddock. That will impress them."\par
"Nuts." \par
"They will think you told us everything.  You are better off with us than them, you know?"\par
The man cursed at them and laid down on the stretcher.  Pete pulled rope out of nowhere - when had he gotten it? Gary had missed the fact he had brought it.  Soon the man was tied to the stretcher, and they took him out through the chute.  \par
"No one sent you down here," Gary told the man.\par
"Nuts."\par
"You expect me to believe they, whoever they are, would send someone with a new pistol that he had never fired?"\par
"Nuts."\par
"They would send someone who knew his sidearm.  You came alone."\par
"Nuts."\par
Once he was out of the pen, Gary took out his phone.\par
"Central. Gary."\par
"Gary, Central."\par
"We have a trespasser subdued at the old gate.  He has a truck just the other side of the fence."\par
"O-kay. We will collect him. Over." \par
They move the stretcher into the shade.\par
"Are you thirsty?"\par
"Shut up."\par
"I don't think it is smart for you to talk that way.  Really.  I mean, really.  We are just trying to take care of you.  People are interested in why you were sneaking in  here.  Now, are you thirsty?"\cf1\par
\cf0 The man closed his eyes and ignored them until a pickup arrived.  "Ranch Security" was marked on the side. Two uniformed men got out.   The man was put into the back, still tied to the stretcher. The men took his knife and his revolver, which they put in  plastic bags.  Pete  jumped in the back with one of the two.  Later someone came and collected his truck. \par
Lately, they had been very watchful.  \par

\pard\par
\par
"Hey, Pete."\par
\par
"You were right.  He came alone.  He broke down on the way to Security. He was looking for Isaiah Poller.  He was going to get him and sell him to someone else, since Isaiah is supposed to know where the gold is."\par
\par
What the Pollers called the Warren was the closest structure in the whole Ranch to the old gate. \par
\par
"Do the Pollers know?"\par
\par
"Yep.  And no, they are not moving.  It's been suggested.  And Isaiah has a security detail. They accepted that."\par
\par
"I hope they're some kind of monkeys, to keep up with that kid."\par
\par
"He's been told no more climbing, not after that stunt with the auroch, until further notice."\par
\par
Gary wondered how long that would last.\par
\par
"And here's something you should know: there have been a lot more trespassers lately.  Instead of teenagers out to explore, or people who run when you spot them,  it's more like angry, armed men.  They've been asking where Pollers live.  People won't tell them, the way they have been asking, but they will find out soon enough.  Our friend this afternoon is only the latest.  It's likely more will come. There's talk of a checkpoint down at the east end of the road leading to the south gate. At least they would have further to walk."\par
\par
"There are a lot of people here with that name, probably hundreds."\par
\par
'I guess they don't know that."  \par
\par
That was Ranch land, only it had very poor soil, rock everywhere, a few trees.  Not enough dirt to pasture any four-footed anything.  No one had been interested in building a settlement there, either, so close to Nicholls.  \par
\par
Here was Mr. Poller.  Before Gary could say anything, Mr. Poller told him to saddle up and make sure the settlements on the Ranch all knew to keep their boys close in.  Two boys had been snatched and then released when they proved they weren't Isaiah Poller.  There were three settlements, at least, without electricity or telephones.  Gary knew of four.  \par
\par
"That will take two days, to reach them all," he said.\par
\par
"Better get started."  He did.\par
\par
He started with Glory of the Lord,  because it wasn't that far, and the danger was probably closest to Pollers.  They had been hippies who had been drawn to the Ranch in the early days of the big revival, long before Gary had been born, and they had settled into a commune or something - Gary wasn't sure of the details.  These Epper wannabe's had learned a lot from the Eppers but were more American than Epper. None had been born Epper that he knew of. People had expected it to fail.  They were poor, they were often charity cases for other settlements who had bailed them out from time to time over the years, and they always seemed to be on the point of collapse as a settlement.  But they had been that way for a long time.\par
\par
There were no roads to Glory of the Lord: there was a horsetrack that often disappeared on the rocky ground, but Gary knew where they were.  Their settlement was also hard to find because the low buildings blended in deliberately with the ground in a way that the casual observer would not realize it was anything but a rock formation until he was right up among them.\par
\par
They took the news well and nodded.  No one had bothered them.  \par
\par
Nazareth was the next settlement, a circle of stone buildings with one entrance.  \par
\par
"Yeah, someone was here yesterday. I found him in the pastures.  No explanation, just that he was looking for Pollers.  Very rude.  I told him to leave, and he did, but before he left he told me the day was coming when I wouldn't be able to make him leave so easily. I told him I don't like threats. Not a threat, he said, a promise, and then he spat on the ground and turned around and walked away - east, towards Nicholls.  Just a real sense of evil about him."\par
\par
The next day dawned bright and clear.  The third settlement, Lundeberg, was in the far north of the county, with land bordering the railroad on the east and the county line with Cass County on the north.  You could see Drexel, almost, from Lundeberg, except that there were a few hills and a stream with wooded banks between them.  You could not get much more north on the Ranch.  Lundeberg was the northernmost settlement.  They had made a settlement somewhere, also without telephones or electricity, and they could tell Gary where it was.  He didn't know.  Perhaps they had even moved off Ranch: there had been several failing Kansas towns that had been bought and turned into Epper settlements; they might have done that.\par
\par
Lundeberg was a stone ring.  It always reminded Gary of Isengard in the Lord of the Rings, except there were no orcs, no mountains, no tower, and of course no wizard.  It was a solid ring of stone with no windows on the first story looking out, and no north-facing windows at all.  They even had gates they closed at night at either end of an arched passageway - there were only two ways in and out of the ring, one facing south and the other east - and you could walk along the parapet all the way around the ring.  They were fond of castles in Lundeberg, or castles in literature, anyway.  And they had a dining hall with a huge firepit, on which they would roast a whole pig.  They were archers, and there were wild boar.  If anyone had a boar problem on the Ranch, they were here to help.  They raised corn, had apple orchards, wore pigskin clothing - no part of the boars was wasted - and raised a few pigs themselves, which roamed at will inside the stone circle. \par
\par
Gary looked forward to visiting there again.  You would always be given an archery lesson and a full belly.  But what was this?  There was a motion as if a man had just hidden himself behind a tree, or rather the remains of a tree.  It had been a wild cedar caught in the fire, now a blackened stump eight feet or so high in a black circle. It was at least a hundred yards away from anything that would provide cover.  Gary was suddenly aware of how incredibly empty the Ranch could feel away from the settlements: there was much empty land where none could be seen.  They liked the distance.  \par
\par
Gary looked at the tree indirectly as he brought his horse opposite the tree.  No motion. \par
\par
"Who's there?" he called.\par
\par
"Nobody," came the answer.\par
\par
"Is that you, Rabbit?" Gary asked.\par
\par
"No. Anyway, it's not meant to be. Go away."\par
\par
"Sorry. Ranch Security. Please show yourself."\par
\par
With that a man stepped out.  His hair and beard were wild, his clothing dirty and torn, his feet bare.  \par
\par
"Hello, Weed.  I haven't seen you for some time.  You disappeared on us again."\par
\par
"Well, yes. I did."\par
\par
"What are you doing down here?"\par
\par
Weed muttered something. "It's all burnt up."\par
\par
"What is?"\par
\par
"Nothing."\par
\par
"I hope you didn't have another marijuana patch growing where no one could find it."\par
\par
"Would I do such a thing?"\par
\par
"Yes. We have caught you."\par
\par
"I am different now. I really am."\par
\par
"You've said that before.  Let me see your hands."\par
\par
Weed opened his hands, splayed his fingers.\par
\par
"Ok. Do you know the way back to Ha'r Bira from here?"\par
\par
"Absolutely. It's straight north from here."  He pointed.\line\par
"It's more northeast.  And you are pointing south."\par
\par
"Oh.  Well, that's what I meant."\par
\par
"Northeast is that way."  Gary pointed.\par
\par
"Thank you. I'm headed there now."\par
\par
Gary rode off, Weed standing behind in the path, watching.  \par
\par
Gary crossed the next ridge, out of Weed's sight, and then turned back over the ridge just enough to see Weed, who was headed west.\par
\par
"As I guessed. No time now, and we have bigger concerns."  With that he trotted the horse to Lundeberg.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
  \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
 \lang1033\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\par
 \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 