{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 From the roof of the Warren Isaiah watched Papa meet Elder Cassell just below him.  He could see the tops of their heads, but they were not looking up. Elder Cassell was on the Council of Twelve.  He was important, but Papa didn't work directly for him. He wasn't Papa's boss.  Elder Cassell ran the Sunday services, sometimes preached, and Isaiah didn't know what else.  He did things at the Ranch. He was a big man with a full beard that spread gray out over his overalls, although his head was otherwise close-cropped. He wore glasses.  He would nod when he saw Isaiah, but Elder Cassell was from another planet or something.  He had long whispered conversations with Silas sometimes. He was of that breed of Eppers that believed in self-control, that the display of emotions betrayed a lack of self-control, of frivolity, and his demeanor was serious.\par
Deacon Pol was with them.  Deacon Pol was younger and Isaiah knew his kids and sometimes played at his house.  Wherever Elder Cassell was, Deacon Pol would be there, too, learning, Isaiah guessed, how to be an elder.  Deacon Pol helped Elder Cassell by handling his cell phone for him.  When it rang, Deacon Pol would answer and then sometimes give it to Elder Cassell. Or he would make calls for the Elder or keep track of meetings and stuff for him.\par
Where were they going? Seconds later Isaiah was following them, but at a distance. They went to Elder Meyer's new house, with its wide shady wrap around porch, and Elder Meyer joined them.  He was older than Papa but younger than Elder Cassell.  Isaiah didn't know what he did, except he was one of the Twelve.  Then there was Deacon Voort, who was also an elder but not of the 12, so he was called a Deacon.  Isaiah found this confusing.  He knew Deacon Voort's history, that he had been on the mission field in Nigeria, but was called back and wound up on the Ranch.  He really was Dutch and didn't just talk funny.  Isaiah knew that he was one of the few Eppers in Europe who had lived through the War, because they had chosen to stand with the Jews and had been hunted down.  Isaiah had learned his duty was to always stand with the Jews and be willing to die with them.  What was a Jew? He had never met one.  Had they all been hunted down? But then why stand with them now?  Papa always told him they would talk more about these things when he was older, but he was wondering about them now.  But Deacon Voort was older than Elder Meyer, even though he assisted Elder Meyer, who was one of the twelve. This was puzzling.  Another of those things they would tell him when he was older.\par
So he sort of not-followed them, because you weren't supposed to be nosy but mind your own business.  He not-followed them at a distance, because that was how you not-followed them, so that they would not know they were not being followed.\par
"What are you doing?"  This was Matthew Pol, who was his own age.  \par
"Minding my own business," said Isaiah, and laughed, so that it wouldn't be a lie.\par
"Can I mind your own business, too?"\par
"Sure. I am wondering what my Papa is doing with those elders. I am not-following them."\par
Matthew's eyes widened. He whistled. "Nobody is supposed to ask about stuff like that.  That is Big Trouble, Isaiah. Sticking your nose in where it does not belong.  Picking up a dog by the ears."\par
But his Papa had seen him.  He called him over.  Isaiah figured he was in big trouble.\par
His Papa saw that calculation in his son, and ignored it. There were some other people there, people not from the Ranch. One of them was the Epper Bishop, who had actually preached once at the Ranch, so Isaiah knew him.  And his deacon.  And then there was a third man, younger than the other two. At first glance, Isaiah didn't think much of him.  Probably a re-pro-bate, a hopeless sinner turned over to the Ranch to dry out.  That happened sometimes. He kind of looked like a fish out of water, like something that needed to be put out of its misery.  \par
Papa was talking and pointing "and the tents were here, until the trailers arrived. My wife and I had a tent for a while.  It wasn't long after that, though, that the trailers started showing up.  The problem was there was no plumbing, so we had buckets under the trailers and a honey wagon went around and collected -  Mr. Futz," said Papa,"This is my son, Isaiah, my oldest."  \par
Isaiah was surprised.\par
"I've been wanting to meet you. I have heard a lot about you."\par
"You have?"\par
The deacon spoke and said,"It looks like Mr. Futz will be Pastor Futz in Nicholls.  The bishop and he are paying the Ranch a visit."\par
"That is not confirmed, Deacon Pol, and should not be mentioned again. All, please disregard that statement," Elder Cassell said. "Isaiah, forget what he just said."\par
"Pardon me," Deacon Pol looked dismayed.\par
Isaiah almost said,"I thought you just another bum,"  but he held it in, and said,"I am pleased to meet you, sir."\par
"Can you really climb anything?"\par
Isaiah looked at his father, and then at the ground. "Only if it's allowed." His shoe sort of scuffed the dirt.\par
"Many blessings," the bishop said.\par
"You run along, now, Isaiah.  This should satisfy your curiosity."\par
He did not know what to say, so he scooted. Sort of. \par
"and what is now the pond was where we dug out gravel.  We laid the storm sewers in gravel, and then the sanitary sewers, and then the water lines, and then more gravel, and then the electrical lines.  Most of that was before I got here.  That's why many of the trailers are so low to the ground - they have a sort of crawl space or basement.  The electrical is underground, too.  The utility work took a long time, because most of that rock breaking was manual, as was the transport. Some  of  the trailers were too low, so we jacked them higher, later.  We had quite a time with the gas lines. It's all natural gas heating. Now it's all dry. But this was a low area, to begin with, which is why we cut the drainage ditch and the ditch to cut the water coming in from the west. So we mainly dug shallow and then filled in with gravel. That reduced the excavation, and made the trailers not so high off the ground."\par
Deem didn't really have much interest in this, but he thought he should show some, to be polite.  And the more he knew about the Ranch, the better.\par
"So you were in the second wave?" Papa gave him a look.  He was not being disruptive, and the look said it was a good question.  At eight Isaiah was almost a teenager, and sometimes teenagers joined in adult conversations.  This made Isaiah feel like he was being treated like an adult.\par
"Oh, no.  Ranch history calls the second wave those who arrived in 1978.   Four thousand Christians and hangers-on had descended here, and my wife and I felt like we could do some good here.  There was that wild rumor - no one knows who started it - that this would be the Refuge City, the New Jerusalem, Miracle City, with signs and wonders everywhere, all supported by Jake Profim.  There were two thousand yet to come.  And someone donated the trailers - I think it was Jake Profim, but maybe not.  Whoever it was didn't think about power, water, sewers. That was up to us.  What was amazing was the group of people who came in slowly, people with the right skills.  Most of the people who had been here no idea how to lay pipe or build anything.  A lot of them spent their time in prayer and worship and had no idea what a day's work was."\par
"I have heard you have had continuous worship."\par
"Yes. Since 1977, there has been a worship team on the Ranch worshipping the Lord continually, non-stop, twenty-four hours a day, every day.  You have to respect that kind of commitment from those people. The original Ranch people, those who stayed, were a really tough bunch.  People you have to admire."\par
"So are you sort of divided into different groups,if you will, into the practical people and the praise people?"\par
"We have worked at becoming one people.  That has been a stress the Council of Twelve has had, that there be no divisions among up.  We have had to work at it. I think the praise people work harder than most Americans, and the stubborn Dutch, which I am, have loosened up.  We all desire to follow Christ more closely and fully, and call others into following Him."\par
"How many people are currently living on the Ranch?"\par
"That is a good question.  There are about five hundred full-time residents, and three hundred or so actual members.  Then there are those who come here as a refuge - we take people in - and those who come on vacation, or stay for a while as a retreat center.  We have some people who come down here during the spring or fall to work on the place. And there are people who work off the Ranch, but live here, and I think there are a few in the other direction."\par
"What happened to the six thousand?"\par
"Well, there was that first winter in tents.  Many people left.  And the whole business of trailers without electricity, plumbing or water caused a lot of other people to leave.  Some also discovered that we go by  'if a man will not work, neither let him eat'. And some found it was not the wonderful place they had hoped for.  The Ranch is an amazing place, but it is no CIty of Gold, no Heavenly Jerusalem. And there have been some sharp theological disagreements, and some left because of that." \par
\par
\par
\par
}
 