{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Isaiah walked by Ellen's room.  She was sitting in there, crying.  He felt sorry for her and sat down on her chair.\par
"Don't worry. The sun will come out again. It always does. That's what Papa says."\par
"Thank you, Isaiah.  I will get back to work in a little while. I am just so tired, that's all. "\par
After that, Isaiah noticed that she spent time every day, sometimes several times a day, crying.  Sometimes Mama would talk to her with the door shut in low voices so you could not hear if you walked by. While Oma no longer needed care, there were still three small boys and Isaiah and Jeremiah, and they needed care.  Isaiah found himself doing dishes every day and learning to do the laundry and some of the cleaning, because, well, he was older and needed to do more.  It was clear to Isaiah.  \par
"I am praying for you," he told her another day, and he meant it. He prayed for everyone in the Warren daily.\par
"Thank you. I just don't know if I am cut out for this. It is very hard for me.  I wasn't raised to do this.  There is so much to learn. Cooking and child care and laundry and cleaning."\par
"Sometimes we do things that are hard because they are hard. It helps us. That's what Papa says."\par
"Your Papa is very wise."\par
A few days later Isaiah was lying in bed, not yet asleep, and he heard Mama and Papa speaking quietly in the courtyard.  The windows were open to let the breeze in, but it was quiet.\par
"Mattt, I am very concerned.   I just don't  think she's working hard enough.  I told you about the lies - sometimes she's lied about having done something, and sometimes she is just careless or sloppy.  I think she has lost hope that she can do this. I am worried."\par
"I thought you said she had stopped the lies."\par
"Yes, she has.  And her work is improving, but I don't think she notices.  She is very self-critical. It's only been a month. I don't expect immediate perfection. I like her, I really do."\par
Papa said something else, and Isaiah could not hear that, in a lower voice. They spoke for a while.\par
The next day Mama told her she was not giving up on her, even if she herself had.  "Christ gives us strength," Mama said.  But little Hosea woke up elsewhere, and Mama had to go get him.  Isaiah was scrubbing the table down and his arms were all soapy. Ellen was straightening up the living room.\par
She closed her eyes and prayed, "O Lord, deliver me from my weariness."   \par
Just then there was a knock at the door.  Ellen got up and gasped.  Isaiah heard a woman's voice tell her, "You need to come with me. Right now.  Just leave your junk here and come before anyone sees us. This is important, Ellen.  I need you - I am in real trouble - I need your help and I have nowhere else to go"\par
"But, but-"\par
"I see they are not treating you well. They have you cleaning, of all things. Someone with your talent.  You come with me and it will be better."\par
"It's funny -  I was just praying that God would deliver me."\par
"I guess I am His angel.  No, don't say goodbye. Just come."\par
And Ellen went out the door, not even looking at Isaiah.   \par
"Ellen? Where is that girl? Isaiah, have you seen her?" Mama asked a few minutes later. \par
"She went outside."\par
"To get the wash in, I suppose. Mama looked out. "Huh. Where is she?"\par
\par
No one at the Ranch knew where she was.  She was simply gone.  No one had seen her after she had stepped out of the trailer.  No one thought of asking Isaiah if she had gone with anyone.  Kati figured she had simply quit.  They looked for her in Nicholls, as well, but no one had seen her.   Isaiah found himself taking care of Daniel and Ezekiel some of the time, when Mama was busy.  After several days the Pollers put out word that they were looking for a new \i jongedamme\i0 .\par
"Well, boy, how is your Koine?" Mr. Kurata asked him.  Mr. Kurata was his new Greek tutor, but he never turned the letters into funny animals.  He did, however, learn a lot more Greek. Mr. Kurata never spoke English to Isaiah - the whole lesson was in Greek.  It took Isaiah a while to understand and longer to ask questions, but he was swallowing Greek.   \par
\par
So why did they put you in such ugly clothes? We will have to do something about that." They had turned north on I-49, headed for Harrisonville.  \par
"I am  dressed in working clothes for a \i jongedamme\i0 ."\par
"A what? Oh, never mind. Look at your hands.  You've been working hard. They brainwashed you.  We used to pay people to do things.  And I find you doing manual labor. How you have fallen! How much are they paying you?"\par
"They are not.  That's not how the Ranch works."\par
"Well, you never had a head for business. You need to mind your mother. That's me, in case you have forgotten.  It took a while to find where you were, at that flea-farm."\par
"Mother, I like it there."\par
"Like I said, you've been brainwashed.  You are going back to singing, you know. You need to straighten your life out, make some money off that voice of yours."\par
"Mother, you said you needed me.  Why did you find me?"\par
"You need to fulfill your potential, that is all."\par
"I think I am doing that at the Ranch - learning to be a Christian there."\par
"Learning to die broke and worn out is more like it.  I am only acting in your own self interest."\par
"Mother..."\par
"Yes, dear.   Well, I am in trouble.  I simply don't have any money.  Eddie - my boyfriend - this time I know it is true love, so don't argue - Eddie found out you are my daughter and he loaned me some money. And some things."  Ellen looked at her mother, who looked twenty years older, despite her heavy makeup.  She was thin, terribly thin. Her hands were shaking. Ellen didn't think it was from nervousness. Mother was up to something.\par
"What kind of things?"\par
"Weed, mainly.  And meth."\par
"Mother!"\par
"Not much.  But he wants me to pay him back.  He wants his money back."\par
"I don't like this picture at all.  This sounds like -"\par
"Don't criticize my boyfriend.  You always criticize my men. Nobody is perfect.  Eddie is very generous.  But he has his limits, and I am afraid I have reached that point with him. I think he feels I am taking advantage of him, and I suppose that is true."\par
"How much do you owe him?"\par
"It's nothing, nothing at all. "\par
"Enough for you to come and find me."\par
"Well, yes.  Your sister knew where you were. But that life is over.  It is back to fame and fortune for you, concerts and the good life. You blew it once, you know. You need to work back up, to start small and then get big again. I think it won't take long. Neither does Eddie."\par
"Mother, I am not interested. That life ruined me.  I have a new life, one I like a lot more."\par
"No, dear, that life made me. I used to be a truck stop cutie.  You brought the good life. With you in prison, things were bad again.  Please help me now.   I am just asking for one night of singing, just one.  If you do that, Eddie will forgive my debt."\par
"Exactly how much do you owe him?"\par
"I said it was nothing."\par
"Mother," Ellen said, in a voice she had learned from Kati.  It required truth. You could not lie to that voice, as it seemed to already know the answer.  And it required an answer.\par
Mother sighed. "Ten thousand dollars, take it or leave it a little. And the drugs.  And Eddie is not happy, and he works for people who are not happy that he does not have the money. I need to pay it, and if you sing one time, that will do."\par
"I can't make that much money off one concert," Ellen protested.\par
"It is enough for Eddie."   Ellen thought that was a big fat lie.  What was not a lie was that her mother was in trouble.  "It is one night of singing, by you. One engagement.  And then you can go back to your precious Ranch and slave for the rest of your life, for all I care."\par
\i You don't care\i0 , Ellen thought, \i You never did.\i0  She suddenly realized she wished she had not gone with her mother. It had been there, in the background, now it was in the pit of her stomach.\par
"We are eating dinner with Eddie. He wants to see you himself, to know that I actually got you, Ellen Ripley Bread, and - ha ha - that you really are my daughter.  Besides, I don't have enough money to buy us dinner, I really don't.  If you don't sing I don't know what I will do, starve maybe. Well, this is the place. We are going to eat here, too."\par
'The Crippled Dog' it said above the plate glass window.  It sat by itself with its parking lot, with nothing but prairie all around.  It wasn't really inside the town, and the nearest building was a dot on the horizon.   They entered.  Ellen noticed the band platform and it looked like there was seating for about a hundred, and room for dancing besides.  An immensely fat older man in a dark suit and tie was sitting opposite, waiting.  He had about six men with him, just about identically dressed in suits.  Something about the old man said 'pusher' to Ellen, and something about the men said 'thug'.\par
"That's Eddie," her mother whispered.\par
"Do I believe my lying eyes?" the older man said, rising, "Here she is in the flesh. Ellen Ripley Bread, with her voice like an angel."  The six thugs rose as well, and the impression Ellen had was only reinforced. "Here, darling," Eddie said to her mother,"Your finder's fee. Merl's in the back. Have fun. I will talk to your daughter." Eddie peeled off a fifty dollar bill from a roll and her mother rushed out of the room with it.\par
"Sit down." A thug pulled a chair out for her. She sat.  Eddie stared at her for several minutes."So. I heard you were busted.  And you've been out and living with some hippies in trailers on the prairie. Is that about it?"\par
Ellen really didn't want to talk to him, but she had to. "That will do," she said.\par
He silently smoked a cigarette while looking at her.  "You got any other clothes?"\par
"No."\par
"Pity. Well, the lights are low here.  When you move up in the world, you can afford more. I have plans, big plans for you."\par
"I really want to go back to the Ranch."\par
"Don't be stupid.  And even saying that is not a good idea. Not a good idea at all. I don't want to hear it again. Understood?"  It was.  Ellen did not have a car and hardly knew where she was. The bar was out on a road in the middle of nowhere. She was trapped.\par
"You don't have to be afraid," Eddie said, with a smile that turned her stomach,"As long as you sing, I will take care of you. You are worth a lot. If you play along, life will be really good."\par
"I am not afraid," Ellen replied,"Of you or your thugs. God will take care of me."\par
"I don't like my boys being called thugs. They are sensitive people, and sometimes take things into their own hands. I am only speaking in your own interest here.  I would not call them that again. They might get offended.   You will sing tomorrow night.  We have a little room here you can practice in.  It will also be your bedroom.  You probably have figured out you are not going anywhere. You are mine, now.  You don't want to do anything that would make me unhappy, but you are a smart girl and you understand that. Everything will be fine if you do what I want." \i\par
\i0   God, I am weak. God, deliver me.  She began praying like she had never prayed before. Her room was in the basement, and there was a small bathroom.  They locked it from the outside. There was no window.   She had the lyrics.  These were songs she was ashamed of, songs she had sung before she had gone to pieces, awful, shameful songs.  She so missed the Pollers. \par
\par
 Matt had to go use the facilities, so he shuffled off with his wife, leaving Deem along at the table in the restaurant.  They were to meet someone in a few minutes.  Deem's thoughts wandered back to Ellen. Why had she left? How? Where had she gone? Did he have any chance? How was it that they had managed to avoid each other, no that she had managed to avoid him? Was this just a cruel way of saying 'no'? He had been at risk in asking, not her. Had he misread her?  He picked up one of those colored fliers that sometimes seemed to be everywhere.  It had ads and corny little jokes.  Sometimes the jokes were new ones, and since people read this, he might refer to the joke somehow in the sermon. What else was there? Eggs were on sale. They are always selling eggs. Flea market in the parking lot of the VFW this weekend. For Sale: Piano. 1985 Station Wagon Like New. Anyone have a 3 ton jack in town? Need to work on my foundation.  And so it went. He was sort of half-reading, with a smile, until he saw the back page.  The upper half had: SInging Sensation comes to the Crippled Dog Saloon Outside of Harrisonville. There was a picture of Ellen. On one side it said "Ellen Ready Bread!!" and on the other side it said "World Class Singer"\par
Underneath was "One Night Only, then she is gone!"\par
$20 cover charge. There was a list of what she would be singing. None of it was the sort of thing anyone would sing in church.\par
He stared at it. He read it, read it again.  He was still reading it when Matt and Agnes returned. After Matt sat down he silently pushed it over to Matt. Matt read it with his look of disapproval.\par
"Sin," he said.\par
"This makes no sense.  Absolutely none."\par
"Best leave alone."\par
"What if she is in trouble?"\par
Matt paused, pursed his lips. "It's possible."\par
"I want to talk to Matt Poller about it. Come on. Cancel my appointment."\par
Matt nodded to Agnes, who called the someone and rescheduled.\par
Matt Poller was at that last greenhouse.  They were wiring it up.  He came down from the lift and asked Deem what he could do.\par
"This makes no sense." Deem told him.\par
To his relief Matt agreed. "That isn't like her.  From my ironworking days and since, I have heard bad stories about the Crippled Dog. It would not surprise me if she got kidnapped. Someone might think they could make a lot of money off of Ellen. We need to give her a chance if she wants out."\par
Matt issued some orders and turned to the Krachts. "Why don't you stay at my place? This isn't the sort of thing that you should be involved in."  The Krachts agreed.\par
"Let me explain something to you very clearly, Pastor Futz. No one messes with my jongedamme and does not answer for it."\par
A few minutes later they were there.  Deem was surprised when Matt strapped on a sidearm and took down a shotgun. He filled his pockets with shells, and then made a phone call.  He gave Deem a box of shells as well. \par
On the way out he called Boomer to follow, and then Bruno, the Doberman, and Daisy, a German shepherd. The dogs piled into the back of Deem's car, and Deem found himself holding a shot gun.  This was not seminary, he thought to himself. He put the box on the floor of the car.\par
"What's up?" Gary asked, seeing the weapons and the expression on Matt Poller's face.\par
"I'm coming, too," Gary said."You need backup."\line "Got a ride?"\par
"No."\par
"I am calling Ranch Security." And he did.  There was room for Gary in the truck they sent.  Gary was already armed.\par
They stopped by Ranch Security, which was by the North exit.  Deem had not known it existed; he had always gone through the Old Gate.  Gary got in the van with those guys, and they headed north.  Matt explained the plan on the way: he and Deem would enter, unarmed, and if she came to them, well and good, they would get her out of there. But if she did not come, or pretended she had not seem them, they would simply leave.  If they got her out, they could expect major trouble. It would be better if there was no gunfire, but it was even better if they were prepared.\par
The parking lot was pretty full.  They had to park next to the road, on the grass, which was fine. Deem and Matt took off their weaponry.  They let the dogs out and told them to stay put. The Ranch security van was not marked, and the guys inside were to stay put until Matt and Deem had left the building.  Matt hoped that he and Deem would not need rescuing, but it was a possibility.  As he had said, the Crippled Dog had a reputation.\par
Matt and Deem walked to the door, where two muscular men were collecting the cover charge. Rather, one was collecting and the other was watching. They were wearing suits and they had earpieces, and Deem had seen enough to know they both had shoulder holsters. \par
"Ellen Ripley Bread here tonight? Really?" Deem asked, as if he was nineteen.\par
"In the flesh. And it's nice, too, but no touching," the moneytaker said.  Matt and Deem paid him the cover charge and went in.  Deem wished he had a good right hook.\par
The place was dark, with little round tables and a dance floor, and was crammed full of people.  There were five other men in suits scattered around, one an older fellow, but the rest looked like muscle. No Ellen. They had to stand in the back, but at least they were in the front row. This gave them an excuse to stand by the door.\par
"Would you please move further in?" the ticket taker said, when he came inside.\par
"There is really no room," Matt said.  The ticket taker did not like this, but it was true.\par
There was a warm-up band that was playing something loud and pointless.  A waitress was serving drinks to the crowd and collecting money for the drinks. The smell of whiskey and cigarette smoke was strong.  There was a faint air of marijuana as well. \par
"And noooooow-" The place went dark. Then there was a spotlight.\par
There was Ellen, her hair loose, one shoulder exposed, heavily made up.  She smiled, but Deem could read it that she was not happy, not happy at all.  She started a song, a lurid and explicit love song.  She looked around the crowd and her eyes fell on Deem and Matt. But she did not skip a beat.  Instead she started moving among the crowd, facing men and singing directly to them. There were catcalls and jeers (and shouts of "Shaddup and let her sing") as she moved through the crowd.\par
She was directly in front of Deem.  There was the normal pause between lines, when it was music only, and she said to them, "Get me out of here. Please" with some urgency. She started singing again, and it was the last line of that song, "If I tell you goodbye, it is goodbye." As it it was part of the act, she moved towards the door, but the ticket taker was in front of it.  He frowned and shook his head.\par
"Let her out if she wants out," Matt told her.\par
"I wouldn't say that if I were you," said the ticket taker, and he tried to hit Matt. Matt's arms were longer and he was both faster and stronger. Matt hit him square in the nose and he sort of bounced off the wall and slid down it.\par
There were shouts behind them as the other guys in suits started moving through the crowd.\par
Matt encountered the second guy at the door, who tried to block Matt.  Matt sort of used him as a ram to go through the door with, and he fell.\par
As they ran across the parking lot, the four big guys in suits came out.  Other people followed them, curious as to what was going on: was it part of the show? Was it over? \par
"Stop, you!" they shouted, and other things.  Deem, Matt and Ellen worked their way through the cars and trucks.  The four ran after them. Matt whistled, and the dogs started running towards them.\par
"You go on ahead," Matt told them,"get in the car. I can take these guys."\par
Well, he wasn't alone by then.  Bruno, Boomer and Daisy came up.  They were short enough that the four guys did not see them, and they were silent.\par
"You going to take all four of us?" One of them said to Matt. \par
"Bring it on," Matt replied, and he turned and started walking towards the car.\par
Gary and the Ranch security people were standing behind a van not too far away. They also had dogs. \par
One of the four ran ahead of the others. Matt whistled oddly, and a moment later that guy was limping away, howling himself.  The dogs were silent. Matt looked down and Bruno dropped a 38 at his feet and wagged his tail. "Good boy," Matt whispered. Matt picked it up and pocketed its ammo.  \par
The three found Matt waiting for them, calmly leaning against a car with his arms crossed.\par
"I suggest you not come any closer." Matt offered.\par
They, however, did not seem to be in a mood to listen.  The three dogs sprang from between the vehicles when they approached Matt.  One man reached for his gun and instantly his arm was in the jaws of Boomer, whose weight pushed him to the ground. Boomer snarled menacingly.\par
"Don't move and he won't hurt you," Matt told him.  There was one dog for each of the others.\par
"I suggest you go back inside," Matt said  to them. Now they were willing to listen.\par
"You gonna leave me here?" the man on the ground asked, lying still.  All three dogs were sniffing him.  There were new smells. \par
"I am not taking you, if that is what you mean," said Matt. "Now, slowly, take out your weapon and put it on the pavement."\par
He did. \par
"Stand," Matt told him.  He stood.\par
"Go," he said, and the dogs were helpful in making sure he went.  Matt turned and walked towards Deem's car.\par
Deem was struggling with the passenger door. It seemed he had shut the door on Ellen's skirt, and the door would not open or shut.  Gary and Ranch Security were there, vigilant.\par
Matt reached out and opened the door. "Let's go," he said, and climbed in the back. He whistled, and a moment later the dogs returned.  Boomer was proudly carrying a man's shoe.\par
He was ordered to drop it, and the dogs climbed in, and they drove, followed by the Ranch vehicle.\par
"I'll take that," Matt said, reaching from the backseat and taking the shotgun."We still might need it."\par
There was the smell of dog, and the sound of faint laughing from the back seat, as well as the dogs panting, but there was a silence.  Deem had to ask her.\par
"What happened?"\par
"Mother."\par
"Mother.  Are you cussing?"\par
"No. My Mother came and told me she needed my help. Her boyfriend wanted money back. She tricked me.  They were going to take me around the country and exhibit me, make me sing horrid songs.  It was awful.  I had a room in the basement that locked from the outside and they threatened to beat me if I didn't do what I was told. I was scared, Deem, I was scared. I will never, ever trust her again.  She did this to me before, and now I have fallen for it again."\par
"I am sorry."\par
"Thank you for rescuing me.  You probably saved my life."\par
"Probably. Matt says the Crippled Dog is a nasty, nasty place."\par
But Matt Poller wasn't saying anything.\par
"You asked me a question the last time we talked.  I will give you an answer now."\par
Matt interrupted with a report that there were headlights behind the Ranch Security vehicle, closing fast. Deem made sure he had his sidearm.\par
"And what is the answer?"\par
"Is now really the time?"\par
The Ranch Security van tried to block them, but they drove around on the shoulder and were now coming up fast.\par
"This kind of thing only happens in the movies."\par
"I wish," said Matt. "I do not think they are too happy!"\par
Deem pulled over on the shoulder.\par
"What are you doing?" Ellen looked at him like he was crazy.\par
"I am pulling over on the shoulder," explained Deem.\par
The pursuing vehicle pulled over on the shoulder about twenty feet behind them.  Behind them, the Ranch security van pulled over behind them. \par
The driver got out and called,"Give us the girl. That is all we want. We will let the rest go. Just give us the girl."\par
"So come and take her."  This was Deem.\par
The driver looked inside his car, as if for instructions. He then straightened up and began walking towards Deem's car. He had a pistol in his right hand. When he was by the back bumper, Deem floored it and spun onto the road, engulfing the man in a spray of gravel. Some of the gravel was fairly large.  It was like being stoned.  He put his hands up to protect himself and staggered, and then limped back to the car and got in. The Ranch security van came up and slowed them down as they tried to get back on the road and chase the first car.\par
"To continue the discussion," Ellen said,"first let me say that was brilliant. But my answer? A very long courtship would be great.  I am not ready for marriage.  I know that. I would like to go back to Pollers as a \i jongedamme\i0 . \par
"Kati and I will have to discuss it," said Matt.  \par
"They know you were at the Ranch?"\par
"Yes. Mother did.  I assume she told them."\par
"Then they think they know how we will get back." With that, he turned north, towards Harrisonville, on the next paved road. The straight route back was west, then south.\par
They needed to know, so just over the first rise, where you could still see the road they had turned off of, they parked and all three got out.  With just their heads visible over the hill top, they watched the pursuing car stay on the road back to the Ranch.  It was followed by the Ranch van.\par
"Well, we shook them."\par
"For now.  But now they are between us and the Ranch."\par
Matt's phone rang.\par
"Where are you guys?"\par
"You just keep following them.  Let us know if they try to ambush us, and we will get in the Ranch some other way."\par
"Sounds good.  If they cross into Ranch property we now have authorization to treat them like any armed and dangerous trespasser."  There was Ranch Security because the Ranch had had such problems, at times, for years. \par
  "I love you," Deem told her.\par
"You pick the most romantic moments. I love you too."\par
\line "Let's hear it for arranged marriages.  If we can get you two back to the Ranch, we will be ok. Deem, this will complicate life for you in Nicholls until this is settled."\par
"I think that may take a while."\par
"Yes.  We have angered a very dangerous crowd."\par
"I am content with this," Deem told her,"I think there is a lot of growing you need to do to be a proper pastor's wife."\par
She nodded.\par
"Oh, please," said Matt.  And they got back in the car and worked their way back to the Ranch.\par
Deem had not known the first interchange in Nicholls County had anything to do with the Ranch, but it did.  There was Ranch property east of I-49. a large triangle of land, that was a distribution center, full of warehouses.  The Ranch got paid a nice fee to provide security, and there was a road down to where Pollers lived that was little known, and the gate was always locked.  Matt had a key, so they took it. \par
 From that point on, all the gates were locked except when pre-approved traffic was going through.  The Old Gate was permanently closed. \par
"They will not forget," Elder Cassell told Deem."You should get another car. And a stronger confidential assistant."\par
\par
 \par
\par
}
 