{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 July 9, 2016 0900 Nicholls\b0\par
"What do you think of \i concursus\i0 ? Are you an occasionalist, perhaps?"\par
That was Elder Chips's sixteenth question, maybe, in fifteen minutes, all of them like that, with  Sandy sitting back, face blank, legs crossed wide, watching, mostly just holding his coffee mug. Different subjects. Probing, giving up when he could see no opening and going on to the next question. Deem took a sip of coffee. Apparently Elder Chips was playing chess.  The last move had been Deem's admission that God moved directly, without human agency sometimes, in the hearts of men and women to effect change. Without means, in fact.\par
They'd left Sandy's own theological comfort zone long ago.  That left him to think about the candidate.  His academic work had been subpar- he'd been on academic probation most of the time he attended seminary, but then there were mitigating factors: illness, his parents' resistance to him being there at all, debt, troubles with the law, trouble with people.  Sandy did not know whether this guy would bring a truckload of troubles with him and his pastorate would be the same way.  But there was determination here, a never-say-die attitude that came through.  The bishop was backing this candidate and so Sandy was giving him the benefit of the doubt.  Everything told Sandy this was Private Schmuckatelli in the flesh.  Who would follow him?  There must be something Sandy was missing.  He would have to find a good reason to reject this candidate, because not only the bishop but the whole presbytery would want to know why.  They had ejected Hartmann only two months ago, and before then the Nicholls Epper Church had had a sort of black sheep of the family reputation.  That had probably started with Hartmann, but here they were. Rejecting this candidate would be instant death, maybe, to the church.  Accepting him might be to witness a more painful and prolonged death.  Or it might speed it up.  Or fix the situation.  That would take...\par
Who was this guy? Superman? Could he turn the church around? Sandy sat there, blank-faced, and thought this was Clark Kent. Peter Parker.  No way Superman or Spiderman. \par
Deem must have grown up around people like Elder Chips, a wrinkled, bearded, sunburned rancher with hundreds of acres east of town.  But the land had been different from where he'd grown up, and the land formed a man as much as anything.  Here, as Chips liked to say:  "Mostly useless: we have less cattle than you'd think because the ground is so rocky: it is hard to find enough grass for them, so anywhere else it'd be only a few hundred acres. Hardly enough to run cattle on. We run Longhorn, mostly.  They can take care of themselves.'  Perhaps the answer was in there, somewhere. A sporadic God who withheld blessings? An improvident Providence who pushed and pummeled puppets?  Rugged self-reliance?  Certainly this elder was rocky, sparse on encouragement, used to hostile elements, unsparing and wary. One of the faults of the presbyterian system was that it sometimes got the wrong people into eldership: doctors and lawyers, successful businessment instead of godly leaders, popular people who thought being an elder something that might somehow advance their career, the secularly successful.  The Epper church had Judge Opp, but mostly it was crusty former Marines.  Something about Deem's face suggested those thoughts were present. Sandy was mostly satisfied, although he was keeping it to himself: how did the candidate perform under stress. He had never been made, after all, and that counted a lot in Sandy's mind, as well as that of the church, and the town.  How much should it be disregarded, if it could be?  Chips, like several of the Nicholls elders, was theologically literate.   He would check himself until he knew what that was. The strength of the episcopal system was that it guarded against lay elders who were inappropriately in office. The strength of the Epper system was that it was supposed to combine both of those systems. Yet here Deem Futz was, a square peg to be driven into a round hole, a dog among cats. Lions. He screamed 'alien' to Sandy.  How could he see potential leadership in someone so different? Deem's speech, mannerisms, expressions and emotions, so far as Sandy had seen, did not match what Sandy looked for in a leader.  Sandy was silent, revealing nothing about what he thought, looking for things that seemed to be absent.  Throw this fish back in the sea.\par
They were having a nice quiet cup of coffee in Butler's Diner, where people were still talking about the gold coins someone had dropped off yesterday, probably a boy from the Ranch who had paid for a banana split with two 1865 gold coins. Here, in this very diner, at that very lunch counter in the back.   Now the breakfast crowd had thinned out.    Harry and his buddy were nowhere in sight.  The only other diners, in fact, were four former Marines who had taken the anti-military route and wore the standard fatigue jacket, jeans, long beard and hair.  They were Bavinck, Kuyper, Vos and Bread - common names in Nicholls, and in some distant way Sandy was sure he was related to all of them.  He'd known them when they were in high school, when they had joined, when they had come back, changed.  They were drinking coffee and eating a late breakfast - peak was 0600, they'd told Deem - and it was now 0800, military time, and they were unhappy about something that had happened the previous evening.  They were sitting close enough that Sandy could hear them.  It was clear something very ugly had been planned and had not gone well.   Foul language was not permitted in Butler's, and unlike Crazy Harry they were honoring that rule. From the snatches of conversation, though, nothing else was getting any honor: God, women, the Army, people who didn't serve, coffee, dogs, rain and most of all the Ranch.  Crazy Harry: Sandy would have to ask a few people what had happened Wednesday between Deem and that sad pile.\par
He'd been like that after the Corps - disillusioned, disgusted, detached, drifting.  He'd questioned all he'd believed.  Then had come the Ranch and meaning to life in Christ, and he'd pitched in wholeheartedly.  There was order and sanity and He was still the One who gave meaning to life.  Then had come that pastor, and he had been on the Council of Twelve: why he still wondered.  Brother Peter Muis, brought in as pastor, with some similarities to Jake Profim: noted author, cherished and beloved celebrity among the Eppers. He had developed a taste for fine food, three piece suits, and young women.  Before the murder  of Pastor Peter Muis Sandy had finally resigned from the Council and moved to Nicholls. Now they had had to let go of Pastor Hartmann.  Sandy had never been too attached emotionally to the Nicholls Epper Church.  People thought he was serene.  Basically he didn't give a hoot about a lot of things; he had no stake in the game, so things did not rile him and he took life calmly.  He tried to do what was right.  Was this history repeating itself?\par
Their conversation stopped when sheets of rain grew loud against the plate glass window. It was so unusual now that everyone would stop and look.  Water did fall from the sky. They were now all witnesses to this new and amazing phenomenon.  Mostly it had been a slow drizzle in Nicholls, but there were patches of intense rain that would move through loudly.\par
"We usually say \i simultaneity\i0  rather than \i concursus\i0 , which is a term the Thomists and the Calvinists use, and we like to emphasize our separation with our own terms.  Sometimes though they mean the same thing and are not helpful when we attempt dialog.  I have no problem with God and man working at the same time on something without it being synergetic, if that is your question."\par
"That is the problem.  You just affirmed synergy while denying it."\par
"Not at all," Deem said. Chips had a 'got 'em' look.   Deem Futz saw it but calmly replied,"Why are you asking?"  Sandy thought of Smith on \ul Pastoral Life\ulnone : \i pastors have to fend, defend, offend, forfend. All actions carry risk. Any course of action can go wrong. Pick one and trust God. Don't let the so-and-so's grind you down. \i0 Sandy wondered to himself if this level of theological abstraction ever mattered to the man in the foxhole, to the young widow or the orphan.\i\par
\i0 "God can act wholly without us, to answer you," Deem went on, a little more forcefully, "and can act above and beyond and behind our free will,without compromising it, so that we can be 'running together' without compromising either our free will or God's sovereignty.  We deny neither, as you know. we affirm free will.  We affirm Divine election.  We deny that either compromises the other."  Was Deem thinking of the same passage?\par
Elder Chips was about to say something when the wind and rain came in loudly with the door opening and one of them men at  the other table yelled out, "I see you don't have your dogs with you this morning," to a man who just walked in the door after shaking the rain off outside, under the overhang.  He was loud enough to be heard up in Cass County.  The newcomer didn't have the Nicholls look.  He was about sixty, nothing different there, but he was unusally tall and broad, and his clothes were better made than what most people in Nicholls wore.  Not fancy, just better made, and well taken care of.  He had a long rain coat and a broad-brimmed waterproof hat, which he had removed with a little shake outside but was still dripping a few drops inside. His hair was  longer than the Marine high-and-tight, and he was not armed.  But neither did he appear  weak in any way. He conveyed a quiet dignity, and something in that remark was mildly amusing.  He smiled at the man who had yelled and nodded his head slightly. Another man accompanied him, somewhat shorter, but also not Nicholls, and not armed. He was dressed similarly.\par
"Good morning to you," the first man said with a smile, and waved to them.  He and his friend crossed the restaurant and sat down at the bar with their backs to the tables, hoping for coffee.  Trouble was in the air.\par
The four seemed to think the two new people had turned their backs on them. They got up  as one and went over to the two new guys as they sat. The four stood over them, scowling, as Sandy could see in a reflection. A little too close, a little too aggressive.\par
"Oh-oh," Deem said quietly.  But there was no fear in his face.  He started to get up, as if to go over there and play peacemaker.  Both Sandy and Chips shook their heads and he sat down again.  One point for guts, Sandy thought.  No points for wisdom.   \par
Suzette, no taller than five-foot zero inches, , maybe 75 pounds if you weighted her down, the waitress on duty, materialized out of the kitchen.  \par
"If there's going to be trouble," she said,"take it outside." She looked up at them with a glare that would make a DI proud, Sandy thought.   Suzette was descended from a long line of former drill instructors and she herself had been a DI - Sandy had heard she had taken the job as a waitress here because it was the closest civilian equivalent she could think of. Definitely a war-face.\par
"No trouble," the man who had spoken at first said,"it's just some folk around here could be friendlier, that's all."  \par
"That's a two-way street, friend," the second newcomer said.\par
"Yeah, right. And I am not your friend."  The four went back to their table.  Suzette took the coffee order from the back of the room, came out and gave the four their bill, and told them they had best be on their way.  They didn't move. Suzette disappeared into the back.\par
Elder Chips whispered, "Those two are from the Ranch: I've seen them in town before.   I don't know their names.  The rumor is some men went out to the Ranch last night and-"\par
But this was heard.\par
"Hey you! I don't appreciate being talked about."\par
"I didn't catch your name.  Did you go out to the Ranch last night?"\par
"None of your --- business."\par
"LIke you said, some folk around here could be friendlier." Elder Chips stared at them. Sandy's feet were on the floor.  He joined in.  They stared back, a hard stare, for a solid minute. Those not facing Elder Chips turned and joined in the staring contest. Neither side backed down. Their hard, cold, dead eyes didn't seem to blink   Then, as one,  they turned back into their own little group.  Deem suggested the three of them leave, but Elder Chips shook his head.  It could get ugly, Sandy whispered.  No sense walking out now. \par
"You got that right."  one of the four, the one across the table facing him, said without any trace of a smile. And they began whispering again. They hung around while Luke and his friend drank their coffee.  When they got up and left, the four  watched them leave and then followed them out the door. The last one turned and threw some change and bills onto the table, some of which slid off. A bill delicately floated to the floor. In the silence a coin rolled noisily and then stopped and fell over.  \par
"Come on, man," Elder Chips said,"Four against two is no odds. I wasn't in the Walking Dead for nothing."  \par
"The what?" Deem was startled.  Boot.  No, Newcomer. Never even had the joy of having his head shaved in the middle of the night.\par
"1st Battilion, 9th Marines. Surprised you never heard of us. Best in the Corps. And the Pentagon deactivated us again. Rear Echelon Mo- Come on: you want to live forever?"  \par
 "Yee-haw," Deem said to himself but loudly enough for Sandy to hear,"The wild west."\par
Sandy commented, "I suppose seminary had not included martial arts?"  He knew that Deem had only been to the firing range once.  What would the bishop think if Nicholls killed their pastoral candidate before he could preach? Eppers were not pacifists, but killing someone...Sandy read Deem's face: Deem had never thought it was something he would ever be...what would the bishop....the church...God...hadn't come up in Ethics...street evangelism didn't cover it...And these were elders.But they had been Marines a lot longer.  At least he followed the two elders out the door. "I'll take point," Elder Chips said.  Deem rammed the knuckles on his right hand into the door frame on the way out.  \par
"Your weapon is loaded?" Sandy had to check. He was, after all, Clerk of Session, and answerable for this. Next year he would roll off session. If the session had a next year, if there was a church.  So what if they got the pastoral candidate killed in a shoot-out. Part of the interview process.  Sandy would like to see the stuffed shirts in the denominational HQ handle that.  Relations between the session and HQ were closer to frosty than warm.  You don't need a bishop's permission to fire a pastor caught in adultery.  Sandy was glad that miserable sack Hartmann was gone.  The bishop and the presbytery thought they should have been consulted first. There had been some regrettable comments made that both sides were working on forgetting about.\par
Deem looked stunned. "Your weapon - it is loaded?" Sandy wondered why he had to ask again. Maybe he'd lived in Nicholls too long.  But this sort of thing was rare even in Nicholls. The crime rate in Nicholls was remarkably low.  People generally were respectful and didn't mess with other people's stuff.  There were weird things, like always leaving your keys in your unlocked vehicle, in case someone needed to move it: that and the prohibition against public display of affection were two of the stranger things here.   Deem would have to get used to it.  But this was a new tension between the Ranch and the trailer court on the east side.   \par
Deem nodded. "Kitten had said to keep it loaded. An unloaded weapon is more dangerous, because then you start thinking every weapon is unloaded, and that's when bad stuff happens. Keep everything ready."\par
"An unloaded weapon in public is a misdeamenor.  Don't draw unless someone else does. If you draw first, they may shoot you first. Watch Chips and me.  It's ok; think of this as a future sermon illustration. And welcome to Nicholls."\par
 Half a block west Luke and his friend were standing over the four, who were, it seemed napping on the sidewalk in a semicircle, their feet towards its center, slowly getting soggy in the light rain.   \par
"What happened?" Deem asked.  Elder Chips said the two standing were of the Ranch, so Deem would eventually find out. Likely, anyway.  But maybe not. No worries. \par
Luke shrugged. "We need to be on our way," he said.  Deem thought to himself that he was not going to argue with them.\par
"I'm Deem Futz," Deem said, in an attempt to learn what was going on, and stuck out his hand, "pastoral candidate for the Epper church."    A minute later he was heard to say, "Ta-tonka."  He looked a little lost.\par
Luke laughed, deeply and loudly. "Ta- tonka? This is Nicholls, not the Dakotas in the late 1860s. No Sioux here.  You look a little out of it."\par
"So you're the candidate," Luke's friend said. "Nice to meet you.  But another time, another place. We need to be going."  And they did.\par
"What was that all about?" Deem asked Elder Chips, who had checked for pulses and found them just fine.  He'd also taken their weapons and removed the ammunition. \par
"Breathe deeply," Sandy told him, "Maybe sanity is returning to the world."\par
"Is this happening? Would there really have been a gunfight?" Sandy and Chips both shrugged. "There hasn't been a gun fight here in many years. There might have been a stand-down.  That happens.  But an actual gunfight? Nah.  People in Nicholls shoot more outsiders than anyone - people who come in to rob, or don't know how to act and get in trouble, but mostly - nah. No gunfights.  Fist fights at some of the rougher bars on a regular basis, yes, but no gunfights."\par
Chips continued, "All that fool talk of gold at the Ranch, I suppose.  You know some elf paid for his ice cream sundae yesterday with a bag of gold? He poured it out on the counter, said there was more at the Ranch, and then vanished into thin air, right there in Butler's?"\par
"Doesn't sound credible."\par
"It's not. But. well, some people seem to believe it.  I don't know what happened, but something did, and something happened at the Ranch last night that involved these characters. Maybe it was one kid and two coins, or a whole troop of monkeys with jewels. Or nothing, when we get to the bottom of it."\par
"Is there a problem, sir?" this came from a patrol car that had just pulled opposite. \par
"No, no problem.  But you might want to check these guys out."\par
Two officers who could only be described as burly even for Marines got out and came over.  They looked at Deem and Elder Chips and Sandy, and at the four men.\par
"Did you guys -"\par
"No. We did not."\par
"- see what happened?"\par
"No, we did not."\par
"Right."  the officer considered this statement. "Well, I'm not going to ask who did.  We got a call  that there might be some trouble, so we came over to see what was going on.  I guess they got tired and took a nap.  Looks like you busted your knuckles on something."  He pointed to Deem's right hand, with its torn knuckles and slight bleeding. "I suppose you did that on a door frame."\par
"Yes, he did," Sandy said, rather firmly. \par
"Better get that bandaged."\par
"Right," said the other officer. "A door frame.  First time I have heard that."\par
"I guess so, officer."  There they were, napping in their wet clothes on a wet sidewalk. One moaned slightly. \par
"I recognize all four.  You might as well move along." And they did.\par
"Where are their sidearms? I see holsters."  One of the cops called from behind them.\par
"Ammo's in the gutter, weapons against the side of the building, Officer," Elder Chips said, turning. He turned back to Deem. "Nicholls is a good town.  The only problem is that trailer court.  Years ago it was a decent place, but old Sam died and left it to his widow, who could not control it.  Today it is a dangerous place. It's gone downhill badly in every way you can name. Normally they stay on their side of the highway and we stay on ours. I'm not sure why they were over here, in Butler's, this morning."\par
"Coffee, maybe?"\par
"Yeah, everyone likes the coffee in Butler's.  I'm just wondering if they were there on purpose, to cross paths with someone from the Ranch."\par
"I have no idea."\par
"Welcome to our happy little town. Like the Corps, there is an underside."\par
"Every town has one." Deem watched as a grown man in a grey rabbit suit hopped across the street some distance ahead of them. He carefully took a brightly colored egg from a his large yellow basket and hid it under a bush, and hopped out of sight. Deem raised his eyebrows.\par
"That's Nelson.  You'll find eggs all over town.  You never know if they are fresh, raw, cooked or rotten, so throw one away if you find it."\par
"PTSD?"\par
"No one knows.  He answers to Nelson, sometimes.  He showed up a couple of months ago. He stays away from people. Usually people see him only in the early morning. This is kind of late for him."\par
They continued walking, heading back to Pfingsters'.   "Are you familiar with the Ranch?"\par
"Not for a number of years.  I have not been out there.  Different people say different things. Some of them work here, but they don't talk much about it.  I know it used to be Jake Profim's property, the same as was pastor here years ago, and that there was a lot of charismania involved along the way.  We have a few people in the church, rather we had a few people, who used to go out there or live out there, and I have heard a thing or two that makes me wonder.  I would like to think there is more to the charismatic than feeling good and speaking in tongues and positive confession, but I wonder.  I think it is pretty much over in power.  We need to get back to the Gospel of Christ, to the giver of miracles rather than focusing on the miracles themselves. There are a lot of crazy rumors. People talk a lot about things about which they don't know a lot."\par
Kitten pulled up beside them in his pickup truck.\par
"Providential!" Deem laughed. "But it's not that far to your house."\par
Kitten shook his head. "There's talk all over town about what happened last night out at the Ranch.  Get in, all three of you, and we will head out there.  They need to know what people are saying.  And they don't use telephones, mostly."\par
"Let me get my truck," Elder Chips said. "Then I've business elsewhere."\par
"I'll take you there. Here on Main Street?"\par
"Yes. Across from Butler's, in front of the MMA Academy."\par
"Got it. Hop in."  And he did.\par
"Don't mind the ammo box," Kitten said, "and don't bang your head on my rifle."\par
Pure Kitten, Sandy thought, looking up at the ammo boxes under the ceiling netting.  \par
"You'll note, Deem Futz, there are no street signs, no stop signs, no traffic signals, no speed limit signs and not even any lane markings on the streets of Nicholls."\par
"Really," Deem managed to say.\par
"There is a theory that men who regulate themselves are better than men who must be governed," Sandy said.\par
"Hah," Kitten answered,"the simple fact that the guy you cut off is armed and can shoot you then and there is enough moto to behave decently."\par
 In any case Kitten did a U-turn and barrelled down the left-hand side of the street, turned  and dropped Elder Chips off, did another U-turn and headed west.   Traffic was very light and Kitten honked twice on approaching cross streets.  At the city limit sign Deem glanced at the speedometer: 75 MPH.  Sandy watched him, amused.\par
"It's straight and flat, anyway," Deem  said to himself.\par
"If it wasn't raining I'd be going faster."\par
He knew where he was going.  Not a minute later he slowed down enough to fishtail to the right, gun it again and go north on a road that was even narrower than the last one. Then he slowed down, turned left, and after a minute said, "This is it," and they passed the big sign with John 3:16 written on it.  Then another sign, Visitors Welcome.  Then another, Private Property. Then another,  Danger Large Animals. Enter At Your Own Risk."\par
"That last one is new," Kitten said,"and the gate's shut here.  Usually this one is open. In fact, I didn't know there was one here. An actual gate, I mean. Usually you just drive through. But it's been a while since I was out here. Years, come to think of it."\par
Across the road was a very stout gate, like any other cattle gate painted red, only this one was much stronger than most.  Behind it was the largest head of cattle Deem had ever seen, a dangerous-looking Longhorn of some sort.\par
"Someone told them something.  That is one of their Aurochs."\par
"Their what?"\par
"Aurochs."\par
"They have aurochs here?"\par
"You are looking at one." \par
"I didn't know anyone in the States had them.  I thought just a few Eppers in Poland kept them."\par
"Around here you'll learn something new every day."\par
Deem looked at the so-called extinct cattle.  The bull had trotted up to look at them.  A smaller one, a cow, came up to join him, and then another cow. The bull's horns had about a seven foot spread, with wickedly sharp upturned ends. They did not get close. The bull shook his head and made noise.  He did not like them there.  \par
"They are extremely territorial. If they know you, it is one thing."\par
The bull flared his nostrils and sniffed.\par
"What's he doing?"\par
"They can smell it if you have leather from a cattle - or if you have recently eaten beef. They don't like it if they smell it. The people who take care of them never wear leather, and they never, ever eat beef."\par
In any case the bull was making it clear they were worse than unwanted. They stayed back, out of range of those wickedly-sharp horns.\par
"We'll have to go to the north entrance." Kitten said.\par
So five minutes later they were on I-49 and they got off on Kikker Boulevard. Not long after that they came to North Gate. Here were uniformed guards in booths, and these men  had that Nicholls, ex-Marine, fit look.  And they were armed. \par
 Just past the gate was a campus of low-rise office buildings surrounded by parking lots. "Kikker Office Park" the sign said.  Further on were warehouses.    Kitten could not take his truck into the Ranch without inspection - insect control was very important, they were told, although that was a first  - so they parked in front of a single-story stone building with a sign that said "Ranch Security."  Sandy thought about how they had just about driven right onto the Ranch at the South Gate without this problem.  Things had certainly changed since he had left the Ranch.  That had been a painful decision, with some regrets.  Some decisions are never clean.  But he had made it.\par
"Go on in," their escort told them, and as they approached the door they heard it unlock.  They passed through.  Their escort had stayed until they were inside, and then had left, Deem noticed.\par
There was a small waiting area with doors in various directions. Before they had a chance to sit down one of these opened and the man Deem had seen with Luke came out and shook hands all around.  He knew Kitten, and introductions were made for Deem. He was Pat Oshiwara, head of security.  He had that air about him of quiet confidence and no need to boast.  He was originally from Mumbai, India, Deem learned, and still had a touch of the Indian accent.  There was an Epper colony in the heart of Mumbai that mainly served the poor in Mumbai, but his parents had been expelled when he was a child and they had settled here. He'd gone to high school in Nicholls, before they had a school here, and had joined the Corps, where he had wound up training martial arts instructors for the Corps as well as serving in the Short Patrol.  He'd come back here and found he was needed. So here he was.\par
They were aware of the rumors in town.  Pat knew of Deem and had spoken with the father of the boy who had found the gold, and knew the boy as well.  The south entrance had been closed.   \par
Pat looked at Deem's knuckles and smiled. "I don't think you will have much trouble." Pat's hands looked like rock.\par
Pat was not one you asked a lot of questions of.  Nor did he need to be told anything, because it seemed he already knew about it, although he wouldn't bother to tell you. They were welcome to eat lunch here, since Deem had never been to the Ranch before.  They would be given a lift, as the North Dining Hall was five miles south of their present position, if they would like.\par
 Kitten thought it would be a good idea.  Pat could not join them: he had things he had to take care of today, what with the trouble.  He pushed a button on his desk.  A minute later one of the guards came in. He was in his late twenties.\par
"Rogers, take these men to the North Dining Hall for lunch.  It's close and the food is good.  They are free to go wherever. Stand by to pick them up."  He nodded.\par
The rain had picked up a little, so Rogers pulled a van under a port cochere and they got in.\par
Kitten took the shotgun seat, leaving Deem to sit behind him. \par
"Where are you from, Rogers?" Deem asked.\par
"I'm from here.  I mean, my parents came before I was born.  We were in an Epper settlement outside York, England.  My parents still have that Yorkshire accent."\par
"Really?" Deem responded, "Well, I'm Deem Futz.  I'm the pastoral candidate for the Epper church in Nicholls."\par
"It would not be my place to comment on that, sir.  No offense, I hope."\par
"None taken.  Is there a pastor out here?"  Deem got a sudden worry that he should know the answer to that.\par
"No..  We have been praying for a pastor for years.  The Council of Twelve - that's the elders - handle that sort of thing."\par
"Well, Sandy and I are elders and I would not so presume that I could, or the elders could, fill in for the pastor for a long period of time."  This was of course Kitten speaking.\par
"It would not be my place to comment on that, sir.  You would have to take it up with them."\par
"I see."  And there was a silence.  Through the grey, rainy windows a grey, rainy, flat land was seen, with water just flowing in sheets across it, across the already full ditches and across the road, which was just where the flat ground had been paved. The rain was washing away the ash from the fire.  There had been some warehouse type buildings when they had started,but now they were in the very open country.  There was a minute or so where there were no buildings in sight, and then they passed a road that led west, and on the horizon they saw some buildings, or rather the tops of some buildings.\par
"What's that?" Deem asked.\par
"That is an Epper settlement. That's where we get our chickens."  But Rogers was nothing if not uninformative past that.   "Two elders will be meeting with you at the North Dining Hall. They are on their way now."\par
\par
They came to some stone houses suddenly, built without space between them, and Sandy knew they were at the Epper settlement.  Then there were houses on either side, fine, three-story stone houses, all obviously occupied, with window-boxes that normally would have had flowers but currently were empty.  Typically Epper: the shop or business on the ground floor; living quarters on the second floor, sleeping quarters on the third, with patios at the upper levels on top of the lower levels for some privacy.  Curtains were drawn back from windows.  A few people hurried on in the rain, most of whom turned and waved adn then went on. Stone sidewalks, stone street, stone curb, stone houses. Stone, stone, stone.  They passed several rows of houses along the street, past a few side streets that led down rows of stone houses, and pulled into a parking lot.  Here was another stone building.  This one reminded him of the Parthenon in Rome, with a dome.  It also had a portico all around.  Inside were tables.  No doubt each ring of houses surrounded a green area with a lawn, gardens and animal pens, if they had built it Epper-style.  Sandy saw no reason to doubt that.\par
"If you don't mind, gentlemen, I would like to eat with my wife," Rogers said,"I'll meet you here in half an hour. Or you can get me on your cell phone. Here, I'll Bluetooth-"\par
"I don't have a cell phone," Kitten responded.\par
"We're from Nicholls. No internet." Sandy added. \par
"I'll be here in half an hour," Rogers returned, with a blank, professional face. "To get you oriented: This is Kfaar Mayim.  They have a communal dining hall The Ranch is broken into different small settlements. I live in Ha'ir Bira. It's the administrative center, but there is no communal dining hall.  The food is good here - I've eaten here many times.  And, as I said, two members of the Council of Twelve are on the way to meet you here."  \par
Deem noted that no one had said anything about their weapons. Kitten shrugged. Sandy said it was not an issue.  One thing that probably had not changed at the Ranch was that they were completely unafraid of anything people could do. Whether they lived or died, they belonged to God and they were in His loving hands no matter what. \par
"We'll be here," Kitten said.  Sandy looked around. It was not the shabby trailer court rumor had made it. There were sixty or so tables, mostly full of people arguing, people dressed distinctly different from Nicholls, like Luke had been. Better tailoring.  The women had a liking for a modest amount of embroidery.  Some wore the traditional Epper hats: there was a system for telling the single women from the married women from the widows, but it varied from place to place and Sandy was not sure it had any meaning here. Some women were bareheaded, others had their hair fully covered. There was just variety here, far more than in Nicholls, far more than in most places in America. The walls and roof were arching stone, which gave it an elegance, surpassed by the mosaics of Biblical scenes of dining, whether of the feeding of the five thousand or - Sandy did not recognize some.  Was that Jesus at table getting oil poured on him at the Pharisee's house? It was well done.\par
Kitten and Deem joined the line, which unlike most lines, was fast-moving. Sandy joined the line after he saw that.   A little way ahead it broke into four separate lines.  It was just like any other cafeteria, Sandy thought, only you didn't have to pay.  Epper settlements never used money internally. He would not be surprised if somewhere on the premises there wasn't a big pile of cash, completely unguarded and out in the open, for anyone to come along and take.  The method had worked admirably against all sorts of plunderers, thieves and robbers, for hundreds of years, who would simply ask where the money was, be directed to it, and take it.  God had always come through in restoring what had been stolen.  So the old Eppers used to say, when they had lived in isolated settlements.  The Nicholls Epper church had a bank account.  \par
Here was a flat screen TV telling the menu choices.  Lines 1 and 2 were Mexican food, lines 3 and 4 Polish.  In Line 2 Sandy had to pass up more dishes than he could have ever eaten, some of which he had not seen before.  He looked for the familiar, and soon loaded up  his plate with tacos with sour cream, refried beans and a burrito, rice, and a sugary pastry  with honey he had no name for.  'Sopapillas' it said.\par
"They should be called \i bu\'f1uelos\i0 , since they are cold," the man opposite, in Line 1 , said. "Sopapillas should be served hot." He was in his fifties or older, with long white bangs that had thinned out and his hair otherwise short. He had long stringy white moustaches and his wild white eyebrows completed the look.\par
"I don't believe I know you. Dave Zlotky."\par
"Kitten Pfingster."\par
"Deem Futz."\par
"Sandy Sands," Sandy said, joining in.\par
They joined three other men and a woman at a table.  One of the three men had the high cheek bones and skin tones of an American Indian and emphasized this with long black braids. One of the other men, and the woman, were clearly from the South of India by their color and features.  The last one was ethnically Korean, if Sandy had to guess.  A friend of his had been Korean, and had been very emphatically so, and made clear the differences between Koreans and Japanese and Chinese. They were already in a fast and difficult-to-follow technical discussion. \par
People sat wherever there was an open seat, with no sense that a table was anyone's.  He was amazed to discover that, despite a great deal of background noise, everyone could hear everyone else at the table.\par
The discussion revolved around the right carbon distribution percentages involved in the manufacture of high-acid environment ceramics.  The four obviously worked together and while they politely greeted the three, they swiftly plunged back into their discussion witn an, "Excuse us, please: we need to settle this."  \par
"Dave, you know what they are talking about?" This was Kitten. They smiled but continued.\par
"Not me.  I'm a stone mason by trade."\par
"Deem here is the pastoral candidate for the church in Nicholls. The Epper church, I suppose I should say."\par
"Ah, yes.  I heard your Pastor Hartmann had moved on."\par
"That is true."\par
"How long, Dave, have you been at the Ranch?"\par
"Since 1990.  Most of my life, in other words.  My parents and I moved here from Poland after the wall fell."\par
"Poland? I thought, what with the Stand, and the War -"\par
"My parents hid out in the woods during the Nazi times with the rest of their settlement and were never found, even when the Soviets moved through.   But later, they were forced to move to Katowice and become part of 'normal society'.  We got along well with the Poles but never really fit in - we had to leave when the government really started bearing down on people.  We moved to a settlement in the US when we could but then there was that crackdown among the Eppers - and here we are." He looked at Deem. "Awkward."\par
"And here we are," said Deem. "That is history. We need to heal that breach.  Don't feel awkward about talking to me about that, or anything."  \par
"Most of my life has been here, anyway. I've never lived anywhere else.  Well, actually - I am from Kfaar Even, where they quarry stone, down at the west end of this place, or anyway what used to be the west end, and I married a girl from Kfaar Kinar, where we live. But I am here in Kfaar Mayam on business and stopped by here for lunch. It has a reputation. But I remember you from your days here, Elder Sands, if it is appropriate to bring that up."\par
"I would really rather not discuss that too much right now," Sandy said, and explained to Deem, "I was on the Council of Twelve, but my wife and I left during a, let's say, a time of turmoil.  So being an elder in the Nicholls Epper Church has not been my first rodeo." \par
Sandy watched for reactions.  Would  Deem  explain where the Eppers currently were at, and if so, what would he say? Surely the bishop had discussed the situation: how would he portray it. For one thing, it was extremely confusing and nuanced, and another, there had been discussion concerning the Epper Church and the Ranch. \par
 Deem only said, "Things are changing."\par
"So I hear."\par
Deem gestured at Dave's plate. "So...A whole line of Polish food, and you go for the Mexican."\par
"Well, yeah. My parents always cooked Dutch at home, and I don't really like Polish food, to be honest."\par
"A man after my own heart," Kitten interjected. "I like it plain and simple. None of this modern wimpy stuff. Warrior food."\par
Sandy smiled.\par
"What are these little peppers?" Deem held one up and looked at it.\par
"Those are called \i habeneros\i0 . They are extremely, and I kid you not, extremely hot."\par
Deem nodded a the two Indian Indians across the table, who had a pile of them and were popping them as they talked.\par
"It's an acquired taste," one said, and returned to their discussion.  "Sorry to be so rude, but we have a deadline."\par
"Not a problem," Deem replied.\par
The four excused themselves and left.  Not a minute later four men, two younger and two older, took their places.  Sandy was surprised to see that in that minute their places had been wiped down and dried, and that done so unobtrusively that he hadn't noticed who had done it.\par
"I'm Elder Cassell," the eldest said.  His assistant opened a notebook and began taking notes. The other was Elder Yaddock, not much younger.  They nodded.\par
"Elder Sands," they said.\par
"It's been a  while," he replied. "These are Elder Pfingster and Candidate Futz, of the Epper Church in Nicholls."\par
They nodded.  "We understand the church is about to close out there. Yet you have a pastoral candidate?"\par
"That rumor is premature.  Although we are down to only the six of us elders "\par
"The rest quit," Kitten added,"Gone. Elsewhere.  They walked off the field of battle."\par
"- after discussing things with the bishop, we decided to see if we could find a pastor who could pull it together."\par
Sandy thought Deem was not at all up to the job.  This was obviously the first time he had heard of that, but he should know twelve is the traditional number for a session, and one with six has serious issues.\par
"Mr. Futz, you grew up in a settlement, is that correct?"\par
"I did."\par
"We have a number of settlements out there.  We have not bothered to count them lately, because of the sin of David in regards to the census."\par
"I have heard the Ranch is - well, I have heard various things."  Probably Kitten had said some sour things.\par
"You heard incorrectly.  Let me say there are over ten settlements, and each settlement has over two hundred adults, plus children."\par
"That's two thousand adults - and if you are Eppers there are probably at least that many underage. Six thousand?" Kitten was astounded.  Sandy knew this, but he never discussed the Ranch much since he had left.\par
"The bishop discussed my being the Epper liaison to the Ranch."\par
Elder Cassell nodded. "We have not had a pastor out here in twenty years. A pastor must be installed by a bishop, which we do not have.  Elders can install elders, as you know.  So we have not had a pastor.    It is difficult; although elders can function in a pastoral role, it is somewhat forced.  But we are not part of the Epper denomination.  Many here were, in fact, forced out. I was. It goes back to the still-ongoing doctrinal purity campaign: some feel revival will come only when there is absolute doctrinal purity, meaning that everyone in the denomination believes exactly the same thing. In fact, believes exactly what the Committee believes.  Which means anyone who says otherwise or objects to that is forced to leave."\par
"At the same time there are a number of people who reject that position.  My guess is they hope to bring the Ranch into the denomination, not only for the restoration of unity but for the known fact that many of us do not view the Committee on Doctrinal Purity favorably."\par
"I don't view them favorably," Sandy said.  They were a major reason for regrets he had had about leaving the Ranch.  But as he had never preached, had not published anything and seldom said much publicly, he had never been a target.\par
"Take the sons of - take them out and shoot them," Kitten added. "That was a joke," he added, to the amaneunses, who had written it down.  They noted his comment as well.\par
"So do you know why we are out here?"\par
"We do.  You are concerned about the trouble, particularly since the incident at the south gate last night.  You probably came to warn us of what we already know. We know of what the boy found and what he did.  A banana split, of all things, paid with 1865 gold!"\par
\par
Sandy was one of the first at the church Sunday morning.  Peggy had beaten him by five minutes.  He smiled because she hadn't even bothered to come last week, and he had spent forty minutes trying to find all the places coffee maker parts and supplies were stashed.  The previous week they had had eight people - six elders and their wives and the Hopkins twins, spinsters in their late seventies who were given to "much prayer", but preferred to do it out of sight.  They had written a curious letter to the elders about pressing on that could have meant anything, but seemed to imply they should not close the place down if the Hopkins twins had anything to do with it.  They were very self-effacing and Sandy was not even sure which was which, or what their first names were. They both went by Miss Hopkins.\par
Peggy barked orders and seemed to be everywhere: making coffee, aligning the tables precisely to the tape marks on the floor, checking for burned out light-bulbs, even finding and exterminating a dandelion that had dared grow on the side of the church where there were no doors, away from the street. Her assistants, the Decorating Committee were there and they saw to it the sanctuary was properly prepared, by their standards if no one else's. Maybe Pastor Hartmann's, but he was gone and she had sort of taken things past a point of tolerance.  Something for a new pastor to deal with.  God be with him on that one.\par
Now people were showing up,  coming to take a look at the candidate.  The Decorations Committee was making sure there was enough coffee for the entire Marine Corps, and the Navy, if they decided to show up  and now every scrubbed and polished seat was taken.   Peggy had made sure they were all aligned, and woe to the soul who dared move the table off its proper position before class. Woe to him.  This was Sunday school hour.  He wondered if anyone had bothered to inform Deem Futz he was supposed to teach it.  Sandy had not.  Maybe Kitten told him, but Kitten was Kitten and might not, just to see what Deem would do.  Kitten was a character and Sandy was hoping to ease him into retiring from being an elder if and when things got better. Sandy realized the Decorating Committee had scrubbed down the walls and the ceiling had been vacuumed, or something.  No spider dared spin a web there today.  \par
The loud hum of conversation tried to drown the smell of coffee that permeated the basement. Talk was punctuated by the percolation of coffee. Sandy remembered when they used to have donuts, but Hartmann had put a stop to that.  It was 1040 AM: class always began at 1030, and Pastor Hartmann, and Pastor Smit before him, had always arrived exactly at 1019, so that there would be ten minutes of pre-class discussion until it officially began, exactly at 1030.  People were  looking at their watches as they talked, everyone in their seats, each with a steaming ceramic cup of battery acid within reach.  Sandy doubted you could find two styrofoam cups in Nicholls County. People brought their own, and they were made locally anyway. Point of pride, there, as some cups were USMC and others were Kikker Industries.  Half the town seemed to work there these days. \par
"Pastor's on deck," someone near the basement door suddenly shouted loud enough to be heard over artillery fire.\par
There was instant silence as Deem Futz stepped through the door, and they rose as one.\par
"You may sit down. At ease. Relax," Deem said. As one they sat down.  Nicholls at its finest, Sandy thought to himself.  Nicholls almost makes a parody of Marine Corps life. Ya gotta love it. He himself had been made, had served, and much of the Corps was deep in his soul. But there was a balance that seemed to be missing from many in Nicholls.  Some people went through the Corps and were better people. Some did not survive.  Others came back diminished, somehow.  Sandy was still trying to put his finger on exactly what was wrong with Nicholls.  Marines trying to act like civilians, or the other way around.\par
Deem still looked sickly.  Pale. Weak. Uncertain of himself.  Deem's hand went to his breastpocket, as it to assure himself of something. Half the crowd tensed up, thinking he was drawing, but he withdrew his hand and smiled and relaxed. So did the crowd.  Sandy thought that was where he had put his sermon.\par
There was dead, uncanny silence. "At ease," Deem said after a minute.  There was a quiet sigh.  "Why don't we open in prayer?"  There were no volunteers.  Sandy suddenly saw it from Deem's perspective: these people are crazy. Even their ties and shirts were the same.  Each had a name tag, white on green, with his last name in capital letters, over where a pocket would be on his right side, just like in the Marines. Even the women, who were slightly more than half the group.  They seemed to be sitting more to the back. Some of the women were female versions of the Marines, others not so much.  Those dealing with babies less so, and there were some toddlers and small children back there.  The older women were more relaxed and didn't bother with the standing business.  They had an amused but bored look and whispered to each other sometimes.\par
Deem Futz opened his Bible as if to find a prayer.  He waited a little longer. "Elder Pfingster, would you open us in prayer?"\par
"Not a problem," Kitten said and prayed: "Lord God Almighty, Ruler of the Land, the Sky and the Sea, We thank You that you brought Israel out of Egypt and conquered Canaan with the hand of the Marine, for passing through the Red Sea, they were Marines, as close as you could come back then. Be with us now we pray. And God Bless the United States Marine Corps. Amen."\par
There was a heartfelt "amen", soft but firm, from the class, again as one.\par
"My name is Deem Futz, and I am here as your pastoral candidate," Deem began. "Thank you, Elder Pfingster, for opening us in prayer. That was quite a prayer.  Thank you again.  I thought that what I would do would be to take questions, so you would get to know me a little, and I would ask you some back, as well, today, as we seek the leading of the Lord in whether I am to pastor this church. So...What questions do you have?"\par
Sandy watched the second hand go around twice in the silence that followed.\par
"Ok," Deem said, not giving up, for which Sandy gave him credit. He, Sandy Sands, would have been out the door with this bunch.  Then he recalled he was a freaking elder here and responsible for this freaking church. Bells. "How about I ask you some questions?"\par
There was a loud belch from a baby being patted  at the back of the room and a quiet laugh went through the room.   Peggy moved to intercept but Elder Bread shook his head at her. She stopped and vanished upstairs.\par
"What is your name, son?" Deem asked one young man, about his own age, taking the pastoral perogative to call any man his son.  Pastors called male parishioners sons and the women daughters, but nobody called the pastor father, an Epper peculiarity.  That still amused Sandy.   The man shot up at attention. "Bread. Elmer Bread, sir."\par
"At ease, Elmer." Elmer relaxed some. That is, he seemed to force himself to relax. Sandy wondered who wound him up so tight?  Maybe they should just shut this circus down. Elmer had been raised here, was just back from the Corps, had never really attended since, so he really had none of the Hartmann effect.  But here he was being a jack in the box. \par
"Elmer, how many books are in the Bible?"\par
"Sixty-six, sir!"\par
"Can you name them?"\par
And he did, rattling them off in two breaths, like "GenesisExodusLeviticusNumbers ...." all the way through Revelations.\par
"Very good." Weird.  This was Pastor Hartmann, through and through. Sandy had liked him at first, but the man had slowly gotten more and more like, like what.  Sandy had been one of the first to realize Pastor Hartmann's days were very numbered.  But he had been unable to do anything about it for the last two years, and when it broke, it was very ugly.  Grief never goes away; you learn to live with it.  Someday Sandy would learn to live with all that ugliness. \par
"And your name?"\par
The next one jumped up, again like a jack in the box.  Sandy wondered if they had warned Deem Futz that this place was a nuthouse.\par
"Ok," Deem said, "This is not the military. It is God's army, but let's just answer the questions seated, ok? And I want all of you to relax. I am not here to get anyone.  This is NOT the Marine Corps. Ok?"   Sandy grinned slightly at the breaking of an unwritten commandment: thou shalt not call these people Army. And this was not the Marine Corps. Wow.  Deem Futz might not be much to look at, but he could call it as it was. Hartmann had practically viewed the church as an extension of Corps ideology. \par
What is your name? I would like to get to know people."  This was to someone in the middle of the room.\par
"Eliot Spinkster, sir."\par
"It's nice to meet you." The scene reminded Sandy of \i The Sound of Music  \i0 when Maria met Captain von Trapp's children for the first time.  Eliot looked a little uncertain. Sandy hummed "Do Re Mi" a little before realizing what he was doing.  That would go over. Right. What they needed right now was clothing cut out of curtains, an Alpine meadow and a guitar. Could Deem Futz sing?  From his voice, he couldn't.   Sandy pulled back into the present.\par
"Calling me 'sir' is not necessary."  Silence.\par
"You got that?"\par
"Yes, SIR!" all of them.  This was nuts.  A few people snickered, and looked around to see if anyone had noticed.  Sandy had, and his amused look reassured them.\par
"Don't call me 'sir'. You understand?" He said it in imitation of Kitten, who was standing in the back.  He looked amused at this.\par
"Yes, s-" it ended in a confused mumbling.  Good enough for now. What a bunch of freaking idiots.\par
"You may call me Mr. Futz. Should I be ordained, it will be Pastor Deem. Got that?"\par
They did. \par
"Eliot, what are the four Gospels, and are they in the Old or the New Testament?"\par
He got it right, and Deem praised him.  More questions and answers followed.  He was pleased: they knew their Bible,. Epper church history, and systematic theology.  He was surprised when it was ten of the hour, and time to head upstairs.\par
"I'll see you upstairs," Deem said. \par
"DISMISSED!" someone yelled. Who was doing that?  Deem was looking also. But he was not identified.\par
"That went well," Deem told Kitten and Sandy.\par
"Bunch of nutcase screwballs," Kitten responded. "We haven't seen some of these people around here in a long time."\par
"There were less than ten people here last week. You are kind of popular."\par
"Eight, I think."\par
"Yeah.  I think it was eight."\par
"Oh," was all Deem could say.\par
The stairs up from the basement were crowded, so the three of them went around outside. \par
At the door Peggy met Deem with her usual charm, ignoring the two elders and fast talking Deem, like a brick wall falling on a poodle. It was clear she was now in charge of him, and of the choir and the service and heaven and the earth and sky and she did not tolerate disobedience.  He was to follow the choir in the procession, five steps behind, down the middle of the center aisle, pivot to the right and sit. The elders had the service outside of the sermon.\par
"The bishop is in the back!!"\par
He shrugged.  Cool. Calm. Collected. He had heard Deem and Peggy had had a run-in at Butler's Wednesday afternoon, after Deem's run-in with Crazy Harry.  That was all Sandy knew: he saw no reason for any more detail than that.  Both could be trouble but Crazy Harry would not be here today.\par
It was standing room only in the foyar, and the tiny church was packed.  Sandy wound up standing against the wall between the first pew and the stage, within touching distance of the lectern.  Kitten was seated basically at his knee.  The elders consumed the first row, leaving a space for Deem, who would come in after the choir.  Sandy wondered what the choir would be.  Last week they had had none.  Peggy had arranged some folding chairs on the side of the stage away from him, along with the upright piano,  this side having the lectern, all in front of the banners and the holder for the cross: in front of that in the middle was the Table. It was empty today except for the offering plates, as they had decided Communion would be too much with the expected number of guests and former members, especially after the last few weeks.\par
The bishop and his assistant were in the last row, in the corner.  There was a gentleman with him whom Sandy did not know.  \par
In typical Epper manner the pianist managed to slip in and not be noticed until she was at the piano.  She had not been here for two years.  Sandy was trying to remember her name. She was in her late thirties.  A relative, he thought, of Peggy's, formerly of the Decorating Committee.  Pastor Hartmann had endeavored to straighten out her playing of the piano in a Marine way in the middle of the service, and she had not been seen since.  It was good that she was back.  \par
'A Mighty Fortress is Our God' was attacked.  Luther lost.  It was clear Naomi was not capable of more than one chord on her left and one-note melody on the right, which was adequate and all that was needed.  The musicians were here to praise God, not show off musical skills, anyway, and some people had the idea that lousy playing was more godly.  That piano needed tuning, badly, and a sharp key below middle-C was not sounding.  They should be pleased.  She scowled furiously as she played with grim determination. An earlier generation had come down hard on frivolity and overemphasized sobreity, so somehow scowling during musical performances was almost de regieur.  \par
Peggy came in and turned and gestured for  the congregation to join in, and they did with full force. Her face indicated she would take notes and skin them alive if they didn't. And so in came the cross, and the choir in their newly laundered and ironed robes, and Deem Futz sort of tagging on at the end, looking lost and bewildered, blinking and gawking. The choir scowled and bellowed out the words, as if reprimanding troops that had fled a battle in cowardice. Peggy directed them approvingly.  Sandy made a note to discuss bearing with him.  Marines loved bearing.  A Mighty Fortress is Our God" was followed by "Onward Christian Soldiers" and then "Our Shield And Defender", all played with more grim determination than skill  and sung the same way.\par
The choir was seated, still looking ready to kill, and Peggy suddenly discovered she had no seat.  The place was packed.  She disappeared down the aisle to get one.  Probably the coffee was hitting her, too.  \par
Sandy got up, or rather came to the front from where he was standing.  Deem reached into his jacket pocket again, touched the sermon and looked up.  He was working on the fact that the wooden pews had been waxed, along with the floor, almost to the point of danger.  The Decorating Committee had struck again.  And here was Peggy, dragging a folding chair up the center aisle, glaring at anyone who noticed. Most people did, but pretended they didn't. One the way up he was shocked to see the pianist making goo-goo eyes at Deem Futz. What?\par
""We want to welcome Mister, that is, Pastoral Candidate, Deem Futz today, who will be preaching. As you may know, he is our candidate for pastor. Please let us know candidly how you find his sermon, and we will be considering all input."  Deem's eyes were closed. Asleep? Praying? Sandy continued with the Lord's Prayer and the Nicene Creed.  Then came the offering.  Sandy prayed something, but his mind was elsewhere.  What was Deem Futz thinking? Why would anyone take this position, except out of desperation? Why would they take him, except out of desperation?  If they didn't take him, the church would fold. That would be a shame, as the church went back to the 1870s, when a group of Eppers had given up on the  possibility of making a living off the land in Nicholls County and moved to town. \par
The offeratory was provided by Peggy, arriving at the front with her chair and a nice sense of timing. , who sang something that Sandy was not sure of. It could have been Amazing Grace, but she provided so many flourishes and riffs that it was hard to follow, as well as being off key.  She could not sing, frankly.  And because she was singing, the choir was not being directed at all.  They tried to provide harmony but she was not cluing them in on where she was going, with disastrous effects. They scowled and made angry noises at the congregation. \cf1\par
\cf0 "And now Pastor Futz," Peggy said suddenly, and gestured to him while motioning the the choir to cease and desist.  This was unexpected, because he did not think she was anywhere near the end of what had turned into a rather painful and too-long offeratory.  The offering had been collected and brought forward, and she was still going, until an abrupt ending.\par
There was a sigh of relief from the congregation.  Peggy was ready to track down the source and rip them up one side and down the other.  She smiled sweetly and sat on her chair.  \par
"Well, yes," Sandy, a little startled. Deem stood in front of them and  Sandy introduced him as THE pastoral candidate. Congregational feedback was encouraged - take the time to meet him. He was a seminary graduate and came recommended by the bishop and by Elders Pfingster, Opp, Bread,  and Chips, which was enough.  \par
Deem came forward, holding his Bible and reaching into his jacket pocket, being careful on the highly waxed floor.  Immediately the whole church tensed up, thinking he was going to draw.  But his pocket was empty. He checked his other pockets. No. There were some papers in the front of his Bible. No. Not in the back, either, as it was now on the pulpit.  Finally, there it was, inserted in Hebrews 11.\par
The congregation relaxed.   Sandy could see the paper from where he was standing. Deem opened it again;  it had become folded; Deem smoothed it out and glanced at it.  "No equative verbs" stood out in bold letters in the midst of a mass of arrows and scribbles.  Sandy thought he could make out "Melchizedek" maybe, as well as some Greek writing, with question marks above most of the words. A little bead of sweat was irritating the back of Sandy's neck as it went into the collar and was being sucked into said collar.  Deem was cooked. Dead. This was totally hopeless and there was nothing he could do.  He had no energy.   Sandy saw that.  This was the most important point of Deem's life and he was blowing it.  No one else knew yet.  He glanced over the congregation.  Most people had blank expressions, not knowing what to expect. The Hopkins twins had their heads down, praying, like they did in many services.\par
"A preacher's calling is the highest calling," Deem said, as if infinitely remote,"where man stands, as it well, like Moses bring the Word of God to the people, between heaven and earth, his feet on earth but his upraised finger pointing to heaven, to which his mind and eye is turned. Do not fail the people of God.  This hour is the most solemn, the highest and holiest calling in the life of the minister. The climax, the acme, the apogee."\par
"God, have mercy on me," he said. There was a pause. A second drop of sweat went past where the first had been absorbed, and tickled. Not now. Sandy's stomach tightened. If his was like this, what was Deem's.\par
"Amen," they responded, unexpectedly.\par
Deem looked at them.  They looked at him.  There was a silence. They had very high expectations of a preacher, and if they felt their time had been wasted, Eppers would make that clear.  With a vengeance. Maybe Deem could collect garbage for a living. Sandy began to get very angry, because there was no sermon and they had wasted time on this fool.  But he held it in and tried to figure out how to get him out of there gracefully, or at least intact.\par
"God have mercy on you," Deem said into the silence, as if he had nothing else to say. Sandy doubted he did.\par
"Amen," they responded, again, uniformly.   \par
"Grace to you and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ," Deem said.\par
He repeated it.  He flipped through his Bible, trying to find it. \cf1\par
\cf0 "Pastor, with all due respect, what is the text today?"\par
"Phillipians 1: 1 to 2."  He had found it as she finished speaking. \par
 "Thank you, pastor."  He nodded.  \par
"Why is it," he asked, "That Paul begins so many of his epistles with "Grace to you and peace?" It is because we need it.  We need to hear it a lot.  We need to understand that God has freed us from the law. " Now he had a theme, and it was even appropriate, and he went for it. Really, he had nothing else to say.  Sometimes what comes from the gut is a lot better than the study: your whole life's experience is thrust into a sermon instead of one more academic that is the result of a short, at a max, ten hour study and reflection on a text.  Dr. Robinson, his homoletics professor, had said that once.  With a shock he saw Dr. Robinson in the back row.  Next to him was the bishop. Deem kept talking. It was sort of a distillation of every conversation he had had since he arrived. He talked about the mercy of God. Then he paused.  Dr. Robinson was frowning severely. He had whispered once, quickly, to the bishop, who had nodded once. \par
"My name, as you know, is Deem Futz. Let me tell you how God's grace and mercy has played out in my life....."  And he told them.  He told them at length. It was all he had. How he had come to Christ.  How it fit with the Scriptures.  How the Scriptures ruled his life. He gave examples.\par
He laid out the need for grace. He laid out grace. He laid out the difference between grace and mercy.  Between justice and mercy.  We should cry for mercy - under justice we would all be dead.  But we should cry for justice, because God is holy.  There is a balance.\par
"And let me tell you how it can be worked out in your life...."  He had three points, oddly enough, although he did not think of the second until he had finished the first, and then the third followed.  Three detailed applications. Like he had planned it.\par
In the receiving line Elder Spinkster said,"Well, we won't shoot you for that one," and Deem realized it had been received well.\par
Sandy's wife liked the sermon, as she told him at lunch. Deem was eating lunch with Dr. Vehe. She had asked him for lunch alone on Sunday, which was unusual, so it must be important.  She thought he was the right candidate: what was the problem? So he is not a Marine. Haven't we had enough of that here? Roni was sick of Marine this and Marine that. Nothing wrong with the Corps but Hartmann had poured oil on the fire.  They could go back to the Ranch if things didn't work out, they were always welcome, but the church-in-town was important, too.  People did not get reached for Christ out at the Ranch - people showed up, yes, but it was inconvenient.  Here the church was where the people were.  \par
Roni knew he would always be a Marine. Proud to be a Marine. But not everyone was one, and this Deem Futz, from what she had heard, was someone everyone, well most everyone, was comfortable with, at least the regular townfolk.  He had his doubts about the Corps, but they had built Marine into him so deeply he would never get away from it.  And now it was affecting his judgement.\par
He told her he was afraid history was repeating itself.  Peter Muis.  Hartmann.  He'd accepted two bad pastors in the past, now he was being asked to assess this one, when everything in him said no.  The problem was that with the other two everything in him had said yes.  Now, should he choose the opposite as the safe thing, or would this be even worse.\par
Roni told him he must trust God again.  God could make His will clear and Sandy could hear Him.  It was His church, and sometimes He chose the weaker vessels to lead it.  Here was the weakest, Sandy replied.  Neither could think of much else to say on that, and they turned the conversation to other things. \par
\par
Sandy found himself taking Deem to the service out at the Ranch - they had postponed their service until the afternoon, so they could meet the new Epper pastor.  Deem appeared relieved when he learned he would only be introduced, and asked to greet the congregation, but not to preach. \par
It had been a long time since Sandy had been at a service out there.  The crowd was somewhat smaller - what with the spread-out settlements, many worshipped separately from what had once been the only service in Hair Bair, when that had been the only community on the Ranch.  Hair Bira?  Sandy had no Hebrew and could not remember which way it went. Ha-ir: two syllables, never with the vowels slurred.  They had taken the hanger used for worship and extended it northwards another bay, doubling the size.  And they had laid down a wooden floor, painted the walls and ceiling light colors and clad the columns and overhead beams in wood as well. The screen around the drums was gone, as they were now electronic.  The Ranch had moved up in the world in affluence.  He was sort of embarrassed at the contrast with the church in town.\par
He knew a lot of people and greeted them, turning them to meet Deem Futz.  Most acted as if they did not see Deem until he was pointed out to them.  Sandy and Deem were guided to the first row.\par
Worship was the same as it had been, but now there were two huge screens on either side of the stage and a massive cross over the communion table.  Even if some called it an altar, that was incorrect: it was emphatically not an altar but a table around which Christians gathered and had fellowship.  None of the people on the worship team were known to him.  Craig Nighy, unknown to Sandy before now, was the director of the service, and Gerry Murren was the preacher, also unknown to Sandy.  Sandy regretted not having been out here more, but then there had been the division between them.  Both were young men in their late twenties.  Sandy  was surprised when he realized most of the crowd was young: his own church was older.  There were also small children everywhere, from babes in arms to toddlers to preschoolers, and then elementary school aged kids on up through high school and college.  \par
Craig was on the opposite side of the main aisle from him. A woman came up to Craig and spoke to him, and he nodded to the worship leader, who paused. There was a silence.\par
She took the microphone, and said,"The Lord says, yes, this is what the Lord says, now see what I shall do. As the bottles were filled with wrath, so I have filled many with drunkenness, with the filth of their sins.  They shall stagger, they shall be giddy, they shall fall down, for they are under the judgement of God and I shall cause confusion among them, for I have set them for destruction. The Lord says today to give glory to God and confess your sins, humble yourselves in repentence, and return to your service, if you have strayed, for our God is a God of compassion, and he who comes to Me I will in no way cast out. Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. I will carry the wicked into another country in all the darkness of their idolatry and wickedness.  And to you my pious, I call you to mourn over the afflictions of the Lord's flock.  Intercede for mine who have gone astray, but do not mourn for those set aside for destruction.  For I tell you, there are those, now, set upon your destruction.  But I shall prevail."\par
Sandy thought this was a strange and incoherent word.  Prophecy had certainly gone downhill from the days before it had been siezed as a weapon by three or four people.  He wondered what Craig and Gerry would do.  The woman returned to her seat in the silence as Craig and Gerry spoke briefly.\par
Craig took the microphone. "I - uh, I am not sure how to respond to that.  Pastor?"\par
Sandy realized with a shock that by "pastor" they meant Deem. He knew absolutely, definitely, without a shadow of a doubt that at the seminary Deem had been taught that the gift of prophecy was dead, no longer given, that its day had passed, dead, gone, buried, sensationalistic, emotive, subjective, and full of error and modern prophecy was the word of flesh at best and the word of Satan at its worst.  He expected Deem to come down hard on it.  Sandy was torn between the official Epper position and what his own "inner witness" was telling him.  But he knew what Deem would do, and it would eliminate him as any possible sort of liasion with the Ranch from the Eppers.  \par
Deem stepped forward and took the microphone.  "Well," he said,"I see nothing wrong with what was just spoken.  Let me say this: it is always a good thing to come to Jesus, to confess your sins, and mend your ways.  And there are those against the Church. I think it was a good reminder, and I thank you, ma'am, for being faithful to come forward and being obedient to the Lord in giving it.  I would take it as a word of comfort to the pious, a word of warning to those astary, and for those who have hardened themselves against the Lord, they are not going to listen anyway.  If it bothers you that this word did not bother you, you need to get your act right with God."  With that, he handed the microphone back to Craig and returned to where he had been standing.  An immense cheer broke out across the congregation that reminded Sandy of a football game.\par
"Our God is an awesome God!" the worship team struck up, and the tempo suddenly picked up. People were dancing in their seats and others were coming up front and laying themselves down in front of the stage, others were kneeling.  No one was running and no one was 'slain in the Spirit', to Sandy's relief.  He wasn't sure how much Deem could handle. But then he had handled an unexpected prophetic word. \par
"There will be prayer at the front after the service," Craig said after a few minutes. They moved on to offering, prayer, and Gerry got up to preach.\par
"The sermon has already been preached." He stopped and searched the front. "Did Pastor Futz leave?" Sandy pointed to him. "Oh, there you are. Sorry. Let me introduce..."\par
\par
After the service Deem, Sandy, Craig and Jerry stood together in a small circle with Kurt, the worship leader. People respectfully left them alone during this.\par
"I need to inform you It's \i Candidate \i0 Futz," Sandy pointed out. "Not yet a pastor, and maybe never."\par
"Sorry about that." Craig responded, "the woman who gave the word had no idea about what happened Friday night, or the uproar in town.  She lives down in Archie. I asked her what she knew about what happened Friday.  She had no idea. No idea at all.  She and her family had been trout fishing down at Roaring River the last few days, from Tuesday through yesterday.  They'd planned on coming back tonight but they both had a strong impression they were supposed to be here today.  They came in a little late to the service without talking to anyone."\par
"I think there is something to the idea that there are those out there devoted to our destruction."\par
"We have never been without enemies," John Cassell said. He joined the group and was introduced to Deem.\par
"I think it was a 'be strong and courageous'", Kurt said,"Like, we are not to fear, but to be Joshuas, to the destruction of mighty armies and the winning of many souls.'\par
"You had the response and the pastoral guidance, Mr. Futz. What do you think?"\par
"I guess you think pastoral guidance is an important part of dealing with these spontaneous words."\par
"Absolutely.  If God speaks, we listen.  And we never leave it, at least not anymore, as a "Well, wasn't that nice. God spoke." We take prophecy very seriously."\par
"Not as seriously as the Bible, I hope."\par
"Certainly not.  Prophecy is judged by the Word, is under it, not some "new revelation." I think you will find that in 1 Corinthians 14.  And I think everything she said is either a Scriptural quote or a paraphrase, or was easily derived from Scripture."\par
"Well, that was my first exposure to prophecy.  But Wednesday I met someone in Nicholls who might fit the bill.  I think he should be prayed for, in the event that he is not one of those  given to destruction.  In individual cases we never know.  But God is aware of what is happening here in any case.  We don't need a prophetic word to tell us that.  And I will thank you to not put me in a bind here, as you know, I believe, full well where the Eppers are at with respect to the so-called gifts of the Spirit. Do not quote me as endorsing the gifts. I am walking a fine line here, you know.  I need to be loyal both to my denomination and to you, and yes, there are rough spots."\par
"Sorry that I put you there," Craig apologized,"My fault. I didn't realize."\par
"Not a problem.  I think she was being obedient to what she thought God was telling her to do.  That does not mean I necessarily think God told her to do that.  I want to be on your side as much as possible, while remaining on the Epper side as much as possible."\par
"Not an easy situation."\par
"No.  But I would consider that things are happening, as you saw Friday with the fire, and Friday night.  I would be vigilant if I were you."\par
"Yes, I think we will be.  Did you know this is the greatest concentration of Eppers - rather, ex-Eppers, the world has ever seen?  We are proud of the settlements in the whole western half of Nicholls County.  See these hangers? And the stone buildings? We have some of the finest stone craftsmen in the world."\par
"We must beware of pride."  Deem's face had an odd expression.  Sandy thought this was a little harsh.  Perhaps he did not -\par
"Perhaps you do not appreciate our fervor for the Lord.  Our theology is deep and so is its application. We do take pride in what God has done here."\par
"I think we have to be very careful here. Very careful.  It is one thing to be grateful for what God has given us, another to claim it for ourselves and be proud of it, as if we ourselves have done that.  I am not sure that line has not been crossed, friend."\par
There was a silence.  Sandy had wished that Aaron was here seeing this, but he was at that meeting with the elders and the bishop that Sandy had ducked out of to bring Deem over here.  There was more to Deem Futz than he had guessed.\par
"If we have sinned, we are sorry."\par
"Have you sinned?" Deem asked it calmly.  Wow, Sandy thought to himself.  "Pride is very sneaky."\par
Elder Cassell, Gerry and Craig looked at each other.  \par
Kurt stared at Deem.  Finally he said,"We all sin in various ways.  If we have actually sinned, perhaps you can show us exactly where? I would respectfully like to suggest that a broad and general statement really does not help move the conversation forwards. Do you think we are guilty of pride?"\par
"You know that better than I - I was just warning you that perhaps it was crouching around the corner, as in Genesis 1.  I think this place is amazing, and you are right that it is the largest concentration of Eppers - ex-Eppers - the world has ever seen.  But it was not clear to me that you were giving God the glory for that - it almost seemed like you were not. I didn't hear it anyway."\par
"We have a long tradition of giving God the glory.  Ah, yes, I see how what we said, and perhaps what we are thinking, touches on pride.  Mr. Futz, humility is the beginning of theology and of knowing God, is it not?"\par
"Yes, I think that is true."\par
"I think an admonition against pride is always appropriate.  If in any way you think, at any point, that we have said something proud, please call us on it.  We really do not want to boast in anything except the Lord."  They all nodded their heads.  Sandy thought that that was one of the things he had really liked about the Ranch: humility.  Paul de le Grande had set the example on that.  \par
"I love this place," Sandy found himself saying. John Cassell looked at him, slightly startled.\par
"That was not what you were saying when you left."\par
"I know.  Please forgive me for any lack of charity at the time."\par
"I do. Sorry I brought it up."\par
"Well, it is true.  I think your response was appropriate."\par
"That was a difficult time." The others from the Ranch looked puzzled. "Sandy formerly was on the Council of Twelve, until he resigned.  He is currently serving as an elder in the Nicholls church."\par
"Ah," and such they said.\par
"I would like to see the Ranch and the Eppers reconciled."\par
"So would we.  Jesus prayed for unity among all believers.  This separation is sad."\par
"I think that is why people want a liaison. Me, or someone else, will be doing the job."\par
"You'll do just fine," one of the people from the Ranch said, and the others nodded.  Somehow, Sandy thought, he had won them over.  He had no idea, really, how that had happened. \par
"Spiritual pride is something I have been concerned about for a long time."\par
"Elder Yaddock." They made the circle larger.  He had been listening.\par
"I think you are right to call us on that, Candidate Futz.  It is rather a hobby horse of mine around here. 'Look at all these magnificent stones' and the greatness of our \i via medi\i0 a and so forth. One would think if God were so present there would be a lot more sanctification and less pride, to my way of thinking.  But it is hard to get that across without sounding, well, hard. But we cannot boast in our own accomplishments.  What God has given us, we can only give back to Him, whatever it is."\par
"It is nice to meet you, Elder Yaddock." Deem held out his hand.\par
Elder Yaddock shook it. "Nicety is something that gets us in trouble.  An over-concern for manners is unhealthy.  I hope you are no politician.  It is clear I am not. Nonetheless, I hope our hospitality is pleasing to the Lord, and to you.  In that order.  Elder Sands, I am quite surprised to see you here. It has been some time."\par
"It has." There was a silence.  It seemed Yaddock was still on the Council of Twelve.\par
"The Ranch seems to be doing very, very well.  I am pleased it is doing so well," Sandy said. \par
"I would credit the wise guidance of the Council of Twelve," Elder Yaddock said,"but our friend here" - here he nodded to Deem - "wisely points out to God alone be the glory and the cause of our prosperity.  He is the One who gives you the ability to give wealth. Deuteronomy 8:18, if I recall correctly."\par
"I believe you are correct, Elder Yaddock."  Sandy was attempting to be polite.  This was a tense silence.  How much did they know about what had happened, how Pastor Peter Muis had singled him out because he, Sandy had stood against what he was doing, as an example? Yaddock had been a rug, a lapdog - that was going too far - but had unhesitatingly taken the side of the stronger.  Only later had they been delivered from Peter Muis.  Much evil could have been averted if they had listened to Sandy instead of to Peter Muis. They had been warned, and Sandy had, after time, been vindicated, if not in the eyes of those like Yaddock, at least in his own eyes, and he was sure in the eyes of God. Was Yaddock still blind?\par
"Well, Candidate Futz, you can see there is some history here." John Cassell said.\par
"Every place has a past.  That is, every place with a history over two hours. And some issues never seem to get settled."  Deem was looking back and forth between Sandy and Elder Yaddock.\par
"The last pastor here was Peter Muis. I was voicing my concerns about him at the time I left. There were complicating issues." Sandy looked at Elder Yaddock. "He is why there has not been a pastor here since then.  It's been fifteen years, at least. Twenty.  Twenty Five."\par
"He was a great man with some flaws. No one has come up to his standard." Elder Yaddock said this with a look that indicated that Candidate Futz certainly failed that standard.  That inclined Sandy to back Deem's candidacy, just to spite him.\par
"We do not need another pope, which he aspired to."\par
"I was not a fawning follower, if that is what you are inferring."\par
"Didn't you move here with his followers? I seem to remember that."\par
"Gentlemen, gentlemen, please."\par
"It is good to learn the conflicts, and the issues that are preventing unification," Deem said, "thank you, Elders Yaddock and Sands, for clarifying that there are issues separating us beyond the charismata.  But now is not the time nor the place to go into that any further. Would you agree?"\par
They agreed.  \par
  \par
"You and Elder Yaddock do not seem to see eye to eye."\par
"No."  Sandy attempted to focus on driving back to Nicholls.  Prying, prying, prying.  But a pastoral interview cut both ways.  They had to decide if they wanted him, but he also had to decide if he was willing to pastor them.  And this guy might be his pastor.\par
"Have you heard the name Peter Muis before today?"\par
"No, actually I have not."\par
"Well...After Jake Profim died he showed up.  He was an ex-Epper pastor who in some way had a road ministry like Jake had, but on a smaller scale.  I never clicked with him, never liked him.  He seemed to me to be power-hungry, self-centered, stuck on himself.  He didn't sit right with me.  But most of the Council of Twelve liked him, and he was accepted as pastor by majority vote. Paul de le Grande, Elder Berg and I all voted against him.  But the others loved him.  I felt like he had an agenda.  Anyway he took over the Ranch.  He had a very forceful personality and he could steamroll anything he wanted.  He changed things around so that the Council effectively reported to him, rather than being a separate balancing power, as in the way Eppers do things.  At the time of his death he was working on getting the property signed over to him - the Council are the actually owners of the Ranch - when I left I resigned my own ownership -"\par
"That must have been a pretty penny."\par
"I took nothing, lest someone accuse me of just wanting the money.  If I had wanted money, it would have been, and still would be, very difficult to either compute the worth or to get it, as it is all in buildings, etc., owned by the Council.  They gave my share to Peter Muis, which is something I am still angry about.  But evil does not triumph forever."\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
}
 