{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Seth looked behind them.  The man with the crazed look was still behind them, some hundred yards or so back. And his buddy.  Somehow Seth felt like the second man was just tagging along.  It looked like the first man kept turning and telling the second to hurry up, whenever Seth looked, which probably was too often.  He should just keep going like he had not seen them: his gym coach had said that when you are running, never look to the side to see how someone else is doing, and above all, never look behind you.  But he kept doing it.   Here there were no trees and no rocks, just straight open country until you got to the burnt-out Snake Woods.  The two men had just suddenly appeared, as if out of nowhere, and then it had become apparent they were following Seth and Isaiah.\par
"Isaiah Poller! I am coming for you!" one of them shouted.\par
Seth and Isaiah broke into a run.  They could hear the men behind them.  Could they reach Snake Woods in time? Adults could run faster than kids - if they had the wind.  Did these men have the wind? Even at a distance the first man had an evil look. He was thin, angry, with wild hair and beard. He was wearing a faded Army fatigue jacket and jeans and boots.  The second man didn't look as bad, but was still no one Seth wanted to be around.\par
A warning shot rang out from behind them.\par
"No way can he hit us from this far, come on!" Isaiah said,"If you stop now he will grab you and make me come. Come on, run!" they ran.  No one can run well in boots. Or can they?\par
"Isaiah Poller!" that was the first man, behind them, sounding like he could not run much farther. That was probably why he had fired a warning shot.  Seth hoped that would alert Ranch Security, or any adult for that matter, that they had a little problem.  Seth could not even explain how it was that he and Isaiah were this far from Hair Burr when they had been told not to go.  Isaiah had talked him into this - Isaiah thought that maybe if he could locate the treasure, things would get back to normal.  \par
Now they were where there was a drop-off down into Snake Woods.  Seth had not been here before. It was all burned looking.  Seth had always been told never to go here.\par
"You chicken?" Isaiah asked him.\par
"No, obedient. Big difference.  My Dad told me not to go down into there.  I think I will be in trouble just for being here.  But otherwise-"\par
"As I said, I think the adults will understand."\par
"I didn't know we were coming down here."\par
"This is where the treasure is."\par
"Can't you just point it  out to him?"\par
There was another warning shot.\par
"I don't think so. The first guy seems to be crazy.  If the second man were alone, maybe. Do you want to take that chance?"\par
Isaiah jumped down the five feet into the ravine.  \par
"I am going to the south side. If you get in trouble I can go for help. He can't follow both of us."\par
"Sounds like a plan to me," Isaiah replied, from below, where he was carefully stepping around fallen tree trunks.  There was still soot and ash, despite the rain, some pooled up against the logs.  Seth ran along the south rim. \par
"Isaiah Poller!" the nastier man said.  He had come to the place where you could jump down into the ravine. Seth had run along the edge of the ravine and was small enough the man could not see him behind the burned out tree stumps.  Seth watched him.  The second man was watching the first man, hesitating, uncertain about this.\par
The first man looked at Seth and then down into the ravine. He looked at Seth. "I see you, but I bet my bottom dollar the other kid is Isaiah Poller. If you mess with me I will kill you. In fact, if I see you again, I will kill you. Now, scram."\par
"Harry, no need for that kind of talk."\par
"Shut your trap, Eliot. You knew what this involved when Johnson hired us."\par
"Killing kids ain't in it."\par
"You tell that to Johnson."\par
"Oh, Gawd," the second man said.\par
"Just shut your trap, like I said, and stick to this business. I don't like it either."\par
"I think you do."\par
"Just shut up or I will shut your mouth for you."\par
Eliot said nothing. \par
Seth moved further along the south rim.  He kept moving.  Harry had jumped down into the ravine and was picking his way after Isaiah.  Seth stayed where he could watch them both but not be seen by the man, who was either watching his steps or looking at Isaiah, who was ahead of him.  After a small wait, Eliot followed him down into the ravine, but kept behind him. \par
"Stop, Isaiah," Harry yelled. "You are supposed to obey adults."\par
Isaiah kept going.  Seth saw he had come to an area where the ground sloped down to a hole, a big hole.  There were cracks in the ground. Isaiah made his way around the level area on the north side as Seth watched. Dirt was falling into the hole as Seth watched.  Isaiah looked down into the hole from time to time and shook his head.  Even Isaiah wasn't going to risk going down there.\par
"Kid, it is bad karma to disobey adults," Harry yelled.  Seth wondered what 'karma' was. Eliot was carefully making his way across, checking the underside of logs before he stepped over them, looking around fearfully, as if for snakes.  But there were none.\par
Isaiah was now on the far side of the big hole, making his way through the fallen blackened timber.  \par
Harry came to the hole. He jumped back as the ground under his feet gave way and with a roar about ten feet of earth slid into the widened hole.\par
"Isaiah Poller, you come back here," Harry said,"What goes around comes around, don't they teach you that at church?"\par
"You should listen to yourself, mister," came Isaiah's voice, although he was out of sight. "There is such a thing as the anger of the Lord, and a bitter harvest for those who defy Him."\par
The man moved to the north edge, the little ground where Isaiah had crossed. "I don't want a religious debate, kid - if this Lord of yours exists, he can take it up with me. Or I will take it up with him.  I would like to meet whoever is in charge of this world. I would probably punch him in the nose."\par
"Already happened," Isaiah responded,"when He came to earth they nailed Him to a cross."\par
"Sounds good to me. If God had a house I would break all his windows.  Steal his furniture. Punch him.  I have heard your gospel preachers. Fakes, every one of them." He was seeking footing, grasping the rock face of the ravine with his left hand as he carefully stepped softly forwards.  Each time he stepped, more ground would slide away."\par
"You know where the treasure is, Isaiah Poller," he called. \par
"Yes I do. If I tell you where it is, will you leave us alone?"\par
"Sure, kid."  Seth could tell them man was hesitating.  Was it too dangerous? But the pull of the treasure was very strong.  He stepped out a  little further, and the dirt under his foot slid out. He caught himself on the rock and stepped back.  Seth gasped, afraid for him. The man stepped  back a few feet and looked towards Eliot, who was just standing there, and then at Seth.\par
"I warned you, kid," and with that he pulled out his pistol and fired it in Seth's direction.  In the ravine the noise was loud, and the earth under Harry slid out and down.  He spread eagled himself on the sloping loose earth, but he was still sliding.\par
"You are headed for the treasure," Isaiah's voice said.  \par
"It's not worth it, Harry," Eliot said,"Let's get out of here." He moved back.\par
"Don't mess with me, kid," the man said, and with that he rolled over, pistol in hand, on the loose rock and soil.  He ignored his own sliding another eight feet into the hole, and aimed the pistol in Isaiah's direction.\par
"Don't be a fool," Seth yelled.  Suddenly an image came into Seth's mind, that the pit was a mouth, and it was about to eat the man. "Escape while you can!" Seth called.  Eliot backed up further. \par
"Too late for that," Harry said, and fired at Isaiah.  With that, more earth slid into the hole. \par
Was it Seth's imagination that he heard a deep, slow voice say, "Verily you come to me"?\par
He watched, horrified, as Harry continued to slide down the steep slope into the hole. "I've lived too freaking long anyway. Curse you all. I will see you in hell!"\par
The man rode the falling soil out of sight.\par
"Oh, Gawd," Eliot said, "Not me. Oh, Gawd.  This is terrible, terrible, terrible." Eliot walked carefully back to where he had climbed in, and Seth did not see him anymore. \par
"Aw, ----" came out of the hole.  More dirt slid down into it with a rumble, and now there was no path at all along the north side. Dirt and rock fell in from every direction, along with some charred tree trunks and branches, but Isaiah was far enough away that he was safe.  He walked east carefully and lightly, holding onto the rock face along the north side of the ravine, just in case the big hole was going to get bigger.\par
Seth walked along the south rim.  He kept a few tree trunks between himself and the rim, which got lower as they walked, Isaiah below and Seth above, as the drop-off got less and less and finally they were in a little valley with a small stream that trickled eastward. The trees were still blackened and there was still no undergrowth.\par
Seth joined Isaiah there.  \par
"Wow."\par
"Yeah."\par
"I think we need to head home and tell the adults what happened."\par
"Yeah."\par
"You ok?"\par
"Yeah."\par
"What if there are other adults like those guys running around?"\par
"Then we head for the nearest settlement."\par
"We were warned about these guys trespassing on the Ranch. And they are looking for you, by name.  He knew who you were, Isaiah."\par
"Yeah."  They had climbed out of the little valley and were at the edge of the burnt woods, but still hidden. \par
"I think we need to go to the nearest settlement. Not Hair Bare.  Because that is where people are looking for me.  Maybe we can get a ride home."\par
"Yeah. Scared?"\par
"Uh-yuh."  Seth could not tell if that was uh-uh, meaning no, or uh-huh, meaning yes.  Isaiah was never scared.  \par
They made their way carefully westward through the burnt out woods, watching for any more strangers.  There were none.  They expected to see Eliot, but he was not in sight.  They paused and listened when they came to the edge of the woods, but heard and saw no one.  The silence was broken only by a quiet wind, as the crossed into the open and found the road to Kfaar Kesef. They knew where they were: it was only a quarter mile down to Kfaar Kesef.  They were not supposed to ever go there, because that was where the aurochs were, but given that they had been chased by these strangers, what else could they do?\par
Seth turned it over in his head. Would anyone believe that strangers had chased them? Yes, he decided, because there were all these unwelcome strangers they had been warned about, which was why they were not supposed to leave Hair Bare, or even be outside without an adult, Isaiah especially.  But they might think they were.  Seth burned with shame at the idea that someone might think they were lying.  He was always truthful.  Isaiah was, too, but sometimes he said things that although they were true, and sometimes completely so,  but nevertheless somehow, while being tue, were also false.  What to call that Seth did not know.\par
They walked along the wagon trail to Kfaar Kesef.  They were aware they were out in the open and felt like there were eyes everywhere.  Seth walked in the right-hand wagon rut and Isaiah in the left.  The road was made for buggies, not cars - one of the ways Kfaar Kesef kept out strangers was that you could not drive there in a normal highway car or even a pickup truck.  There were some settlements that didn't even have that, but you could only get there on foot or by buggy. \par
 "Now I know how Frodo felt when he was being chased by black riders."\par
"Aww, Isaiah, that was pretend. This is real."\par
"Was not pretend."\par
"Was, too."\par
"Well, I thought it was real. It felt real."\par
"My Dad says good writing is like that. But I think we are talking too much, and too loud. And we are too much in the open."\par
"There!" a man's voice rang out behind them, and a gasoline motor started up.  It was a pickup truck, one without a front wheelcover, with two men in front and two standing in the bed.\par
There was nowhere to run except towards Kfaar Kesef, and the shortest way to do that was along the road.  But how could they go faster than a truck, especially along the road?\par
The driver accelerated and swung into the tracks, thinking it was a normal road.  Seth heard a loud tearing  screech as the rock ridge between the two wheel tracks caught the truck's underparts - Seth thought the word "transmission" was right, but wasn't sure - and tore it out.  The truck jerked to a stop.  The two men in the truck bed had been thrown over the cab and landed on the road, and two circles of shattered glass on the windshield told him the driver and passenger had hit their heads on the glass.\par
"I guess we can get them help at Kfaar Kesef," Seth said.\par
"We can't really help people who would kidnap us if they caught us," Isaiah said.\par
And with that, they turned and ran towards Kfaar Kesef.  Behind them were groans and the sound of the truck doors opening. There was some cursing and they heard some moans from the men, who apparently weren't hurt all that bad after all.\par
The stony ground gave way to high grass, taller than they were.  They stopped. \par
"It's full of chiggers and ticks!" seth hesitated.  They could see grasshoppers.\par
"Snakes, too, I'll bet."\par
They looked back at the truck.  The men were slowly coming, touching their heads from time to time and shaking their heads.  They were all carrying rifles.\par
There was nowhere else to go, so they started for the grass.\par
"Wait," Seth said, 'Go in backwards at first, so they don't see the trail."\par
"I read about that."\par
So they walked backwards slowly, closing the tall grass behind them and checking their footing.  They were afraid of snakes.  Bugs were crawling on them and it was cooler in the grass.\par
Things were moving in the grass, small animals, maybe mice, maybe snakes.   \par
They could hear the men approaching.  They had bumped up against a very stout fence, one made out of strong steel cross members and steel posts.  They could slide through the gap betwen the cross members, and they found themselves in a large pasture that had been cropped by cattle of some kind.\par
"Come out of the grass or we will set it on fire!" one of the men said. \par
They bent down low and ran along the fence.  There were no buildings in sight.  \par
"That means they are staying out of the grass!"\par
"We are in so much trouble when we get home.1"\par
"We are in a lot of trouble right now, you know?"\par
There was some yelling from the men.  It seemed they had no way of starting a fire.  They were arguing about whether to go back to the truck and get something, or go through the tall grass themselves.  None of them wanted to do that: they were afraid there might be the deadly snakes. One of them was feeling very sick and had to lie down.  He wanted a doctor, and the others were having none of that. And they would have to walk back to Nicholls, because the truck was wrecked, and how were they supposed to get it out of there. The driver was cussed out for stupidity. He had things to say, too. \par
Seth and Isaiah left the arguing men behind as they ran along the fence, over a ridge and down the other side.  They crossed a dry creek bed and then were going up the opposite slope.\par
Seth stopped, grabbed Isaiah by the arm, stared.\par
"What?" Isaiah asked.\par
"Aurochs."  There were eight or so of the huge cattle standing in the shade.  They had not seen the boys.\par
"Let's just keep moving along the fence.  If they see us, we will just slide through the fence."\par
They saw more aurochs as they snuck along.  Then there was a bellowing - the bull had seen them, and they were in his territory.  With frightening speed he approached them, but they had time to get through the fence. Here they had reached through or over the fence and eaten the tall grass, so there was space, and there was  a thicket of spiny and thorny plants just a little further.  They had nowhere to go on this side of the fence. The bull issued his challenge again.\par
Here was the huge bull, larger than the huge cows.  Seth's heart pounded as he came up to the fence.  The boys crouched just on the other side of it, and that huge head with its terrible horns, bent down, sniffing.\par
It found Isaiah and sniffed him through the fence.  Then a massive tongue came out and licked the side of his face.\par
"I guess we are friends!" Isaiah said, and relaxed.\par
'How did you -" but Seth got licked.  They both had smelly bull-saliva and bits of whatever he had been chewing on their faces.\par
"Now you are his friend, too!"  Isaiah climbed back through the fence and the bull sniffed him up and down.  He waved his tail as if in greeting.\par
"Come on, Seth. Don't act afraid. Bulls can smell fear. Be his friend."\par
With a little more urging Seth climbed through the fence and stood there, in front of the bull, who smelled him some more.\par
"This must be the bull you climbed on.  I heard about that."\par
"I saw his horns.  I know it's him.  That is why we are friends."\par
Isaiah pulled a clump of grass and offered it to the bull. He took it, and then walked along the fence.  When they did not follow, he stood there, looking at them.\par
"I think we are supposed to follow him," Seth said, and they did.\par
The bull stood and watched as they came up to him, and then they realized he wanted them to keep going that way.  His pasture, his rules.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 