{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Deem was still thinking about how well Sunday school had gone, and how odd.  He had hoped to put the last polish on his sermon this morning, from seven to nine, but he had had to deal with getting his suit dry cleaned.  It was still dirty from last Wednesday.  He had chased down a dry cleaner willing to take it, but then he found out he would not get it back the same day.  That was only if you dropped it off in the everning and picked it up the next evening, and not on a weekend, not in Nicholls or Archie or Harrisonville.. So he had a frantic trip up to get a suit.  The nearest store that was open was in Lee's Summit, and they had been in no hurry.  \par
That was after word had spread Saturday at the Ranch that he was there, and all twelve elders stopped by the dining hall to meet him, and then people had formed a line.\par
Kitten had gotten him out of there by reminding him of a funeral he needed to be at. Then time with the grieving family - where is God? Still there, never left. Never closer than when we are in pain. Dinner with a young man, one of Kitten's nephews, impossible to turn down, who was thinking about the seminary "after I kill some gooks". It was eight o"clock by the time he had even looked at his suit.  It was good his sermon was complete, he thought, folding it and sticking it in his Bible.  He didn't stop to think that he had not touched it since 3 AM Thursday morning.  His suit had been dirty...\par
When he got back he was told he was going to be late for Sunday School.\par
What Sunday School?\par
The class you are going to teach. Fifty-two weeks a year, including Christmas and Easter.  This church was not a bunch of slackers. Understand that right off. \par
So he managed to be ten minutes late, which he knew was absolutely fatal.  The parking lot was full and he had to walk two blocks. He had snatched the sermon he had prepared on Wednesday night and put it without looking in the front of his Bible. Yep, still there, he checked.  He checked its presence repeatedly, without opening it.  He'd have time to polish it a little.  Sunday school was in the basement.  It was explained to him that he entered through the front door on Sunday morning, so around he went and down the stairs.\par
"Pastor's on deck", someone shouted as he entered the room.  From a conversational hum there was sudden instant silence, and as one, they stood.  They were behind the precisely aligned tables and they stood as one, at attention.  \cf1 Even their ties and shirts were the same.  Each had a name tag, white on green, with his last name in capital letters, over where a pocket would be on his right side, just like in the Marines. Even the women, who were slightly more than half the group.  They seemed to be sitting more to the back. Some of the women were female versions of the Marines, others not so much.  Those dealing with babies less so, and there were some toddlers and small children back there.  The older women were more relaxed and didn't bother with the standing business.  They had an amused but bored look and whispered to each other sometimes.\cf0\par
"Sit down,please." Deem told them.  And they did, as one.\par
\cf1 There was dead, uncanny silence. "At ease," he said after a minute.  There was a quiet sigh.\cf0\par
Deem decided to probe and find out what they knew. It was standing room only at the back and they all relaxed a little.  \cf1 There was a loud belch from a baby being patted back there and a quiet laugh went through the room.\par
"What is your name, son?" he asked one young man. The man shot up at attention. "Bread. Elmer Bread, sir."\par
"At ease, Elmer." Elmer relaxed some.\par
"Elmer, how many books are in the Bible?"\par
"Sixty-six, sir!"\par
"Can you name them?"\par
And he did, rattling them off in two breaths, like "GenesisExodusLeviticusNumbers ...." all the way through Revelations.\par
"Very good." Weird.\par
"And your name?"\par
The next one jumped up like a jack in the box.\par
"Ok," Deem said, "This is not the military. It is God's army, but let's just answer the questions seated, ok? And I want all of you to relax. I am not here to get anyone.  This is NOT the Marine Corps. Ok?"   \cf0 A flicker in a few eyes when he mentioned 'army' - could they be so gung-ho as to insist they were God's Marines?  Oh, man.\par
They nodded, as one.  Weird. He would have thought he was facing a Marine unit.  What where they called? Battle- something. Battle-lion? Platoon? A squad was smaller..  Probably more hard core than the Marine Corps. No wonder they went into the Marines. It was probably a relaxing vacation after this place. \par
"\cf1 What is your name? I would like to get to know people."\par
"Eliot Spinkster, sir."\par
"It's nice to meet you." He felt a little like Maria when she met Captain von Trapp's children for the first time.  Eliot looked a little uncertain.  Deem found himself wanting to sing "Do Re Mi" from \i the Sound of Music\i0 .  That would go over. Right.\par
"Calling me 'sir' is not necessary."  Silence.\par
"You got that?"\par
"Yes, SIR!" all of them.  This was nuts. \par
"Don't call me 'sir'. You understand?" He said it in imitation of Kitten, who was standing in the back.  He looked amused at this.\par
"Yes, s-" it ended in a confused mumbling.  Good enough for now.\par
"Eliot, what are the four Gospels, and are they in the Old or the New Testament?"\par
He got it right, and Deem praised him.  More questions and answers followed.  He was pleased: they knew their Bible,. Epper church history, and systematic theology.  He was surprised when it was ten of the hour, and time to head upstairs.\par
\cf0 That had gone well.\par
Peggy met him in a way that reminded Deem of running into a wall. It was clear she was now in charge of him, and of the choir and the service and heaven and the earth and sky and she did not tolerate disobedience.  He was to follow the choir in the procession, five steps behind, down the middle of the center aisle, pivot to the right and sit. The elders had the service outside of the sermon. Ok.\par
She went back to inspecting the choir, difficult in the crowded foyar.  Collars had to be just so, as did the robes.  Creases had to fall the same way.  She looked at Deem, tight-lipped, but said nothing.  Clearly he did not measure up.  Well, yeah, that was the whole point in this town, wasn't it.  And in fact, in the world. We don't measure up so that we can know our dependence on God. Absolute dependence. \par
\cf1 There was an opening hymn: A Mighty Fortress, on the piano, and the congregation joined in full force.  The pianist was capable of one chord on her left hand and plinking out the melody with her right, along with some aggressive use of the pedals at times.  The place sounded packed, and so was the hall going in, and the doors were open and there were people outside.\par
\cf0 Elder Sands, clerk of Session met him. His eyes said, "This is the big moment for you. It is yours to lose. Screw this up and you can be flipping burgers for the rest of your life."  His mouth said, "You'll do fine. People are praying for you."  Nice.  Like he  had been invited to a fancy house for a  feast of a hundred people, only to discover he was the cook and the dishwaher.\par
"I'll do the dishes later," said Deem, and realized then that sounded crazy.  He gave Deem a startled look and walked off.  It probably WAS the best that elder could do.  It was probably also true.  But then he had been fired for an inability to flip burgers. When he scooped them up, sometimes they hit the floor, sometimes the wall, sometimes they broke. He had lasted two hours.  This was a great time to remember that.  Deem's spirits started sliding.\par
The choir went in and Peggy ordered him in at the right time with a jerk of her thumb.  He followed, clutching his Bible.  There was a seat for him in the front row as she had said. He sat.  Someone had waxed it and he kept sliding forward, so someone behind him would have seen his head suddenly go jerking up and down. Finally he mastered the trick of bracing his feet against the floor in a way that he didn't slide forward and his shoes didn't either, on the wooden floor which had also been waxed.\par
"\cf1 A Mighty Fortress is Our God" was followed by "Onward Christian Soldiers" and then "Our Shield And Defender", all played with more grim determination than skill  \cf0 in an old upright piano by an elderly woman.  Many Epper musicians scowled while playing.  \cf1 An earlier generation had come down hard on frivolity and overemphasized sobreity, so somehow scowling during musical performances was almost de regieur.  The choir scowled and bellowed out the words, as if reprimanding troops that had fled a battle in cowardice. Peggy directed them.  \cf0 The words sort of followed the tune.  It was clear that they were not following the liturgy at all, so Deem had no reference points.  He wasn't even sure when in the service he would be preaching. He touched his pocket to reassure himself his sermon was there.  As best he could remember, he had polished it and it was ready to go. He slipped it into the front of his Bible without looking at it. When had he taken it out of the Bible and put it in his suit?  He could not remember.  His tie was straight and he had mastered the waxed pew and waxed floor business. \par
Kitten came forward. \cf1 "We want to welcome Deem Futz today, who will be preaching. As you may know, he is the candidate for pastor. Please let us know candidly how you find his sermon, and we will be considering all input." \cf0 He followed up with some announcements that were meaningless to Deem - "the WBF will be meeting at Schmidts as usual, and there will be no MBS at Mullerheims due to the EP cong fest."  More acronyms, all times given in Oh-something hundreds or )h-something thirties. He used acronyms and the military terms - Alpha, Bravo, Charlie, Delta and so forth.  Deem realized he would have to learn this soon.\par
Then Elder Sands led them in the \cf1 Lord's Prayer and the Nicene Creed.  Then came the offering.\cf0  \cf1 The offeratory was provided by Peggy, who sang something that Deem was not sure of. It could have been Amazing Grace, but she provided so many flourishes and riffs that it was hard to follow, as well as being off key.  She could not sing, frankly.  And because she was singing, the choir was not being directed at all.  They tried to provide harmony but she was not cluing them in on where she was going, with disastrous effects. They scowled and made angry noise at the congregation.\par
"And now Pastor Futz," Peggy said suddenly, and gestured to him while motioning the the choir to cease and desist.  This was unexpected, because he did not think she was anywhere near the end of what had turned into a rather painful and too-long offeratory.  \cf0 Maybe it would make him look good, he thought.  But some changes would have to be made if he were pastor.  He realized he would have to confront Peggy, which would be difficult.\par
\cf1 "Well, yes," said Elder Sands, who looked a little startled. Deem stood in front of them and  was introduced as THE pastoral candidate. Congregational feedback was encouraged - take the time to meet him. He was a seminary graduate and came recommended by the bishop and by Elders Pfingster, Opp, Bread,  and Chips, which was enough. Elders Sands and Spinkster would be meeting with him later.  \cf0\par
Deem barely heard this, or heard it as if from a remote distance.  He watched himself standing there. He watched himself from the front, looking down at himself in the first pew, his head bobbing up and down as he fought the wax on the pew and the floor. They locked eyes.\par
He watched himself bring his Bible up to the pulpit and lay it open to Hebrews. He smiled at everyone and was surprised to see he was no longer sitting in the front row looking at himself. \i Where had he gone?  I am right here\i0 , he told himself. He nodded at those he had met. Every eye was on him. Kitten was in the back row, looking furious as usual.  Next to him was the bishop.  There was Lew Bread. Peggy stood in the back by the door, tense, looking ready to spring.  Nathan Bread was about halfway up on the right, relaxed, his head a little to the side, mouth closed, expressionless.  Dennis Opp was on the aisle, frowning, leaning forward on his cane.  Elder Chips was there, and Elder Sands, whom he had not yet spoken to, much, and Elmer Bread, and many others.  It was in some ways like a courtroom,  with himself in the witness stand, or being tried.  Usually in adversarial preaching it was the people who were on trial and God the judge.  Here it seemed they were the judge and he was on trial. The host of faces looked down from the walls in witness.  There was a look of shock on some faces.  Pastors were supposed to solemnly bring the Word of God and reflect the stern holiness of God, not pal around with people. He had smiled.  Clearly he was not grieving for the sins of God's people?  This was serious business that was supposed to be done with the right bearing and no trace of frivolity or familiarity.  That was old-school Epper, severely anti-sensationalist. They had been softening, lately....   He opened the front of his Bible and brought out his piece of paper. Hadn't he opened it already? Maybe he had shut it while he was looking at people.\par
Here he was in the pulpit with those people below him and the faces in the pictures above him, suspended, as it were, between heaven and hell.  They called it a pulpit for a reason. He could not remember why.  Dead silence. Expectancy.  Some preachers created it and then thundered out something eloquent and momentous. But now Deem's mind was blank. He was putting all his hopes in the sermon he had written. There it was.  Again he opened his Bible and took the paper out and smoothed it without looking at it. One more look around, and he would plunge into it, like a sailing ship before a strong wind. It would carry him into the pastorate. \par
Now, it is a funny thing about memory.  Although the time from Wednesday was so short, his recollections of what was on that piece of paper had grown in its completeness, organization and sophistication.  If you had asked him Wednesday night or early Thursday morning, he would have said the sermon was not even started.  Friday he would have said it needed major work, and Saturday he would have said it was nearly completed.  This morning, on waking, he had thought it was so ready that all he had to to was open the piece of paper and the words would flow from his lips.  He would not be a Chyrysostom, but it would be good. He was now imagining a cogent three part sermon with fine points that he could just expressively read, and it would be powerful.\par
\cf1 He opened it again;  it had become folded, smoothed it out and glanced at it.  "No equative verbs" stood out in bold letters in the midst of a mass of arrows and scribbles.  He thought he could make out "Melchizedek" maybe, but he did not have the time. A little bead of sweat was irritating the back of his neck as it went into the collar and was being sucked into said collar.  He was cooked. Dead. This was totally hopeless and there was nothing he could do.  He had no energy.  \cf0 His mind went blank except for the thought that he must look like a deer in the headlights. He felt himself lose two inches in height.  To make up for it his stomach was suggesting that breakfast had been unwelcome: perhaps it was time to get rid of it?\par
"\cf1 A preacher's calling is the highest calling," he heard his preaching professor say,"where man stands, as it well, like Moses bring the Word of God to the people, between heaven and earth, his feet on earth but his upraised finger pointing to heaven, to which his mind and eye is turned. Do not fail the people of God.  This hour is the most solemn, the highest and holiest calling in the life of the minister. The climax, the acme, the apogee."\par
"God, have mercy on me," he said. There was a pause. A second drop of sweat went past where the first had been absorbed, and tickled. Not now. \par
"Amen," they responded, unexpectedly.\par
He looked at them.  They looked at him. They had very high expectations of a preacher, and if they felt their time had been wasted, Eppers would make that clear.  With a vengeance. Maybe he could collect garbage for a living.\par
"God have mercy on you," he said. \cf0 It was all he could think of. They had no idea what they were in for. Neither did he, except that this was the end. He was, right now, walking off a cliff. \par
\cf1 "Amen," they responded, again, uniformly.  What a screwy church.\par
"Grace to you and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ," \cf0 Deem found himself saying. It was from one of the epistles.  He could not remember which.  Or was it from several. Several.  His mind was completely, utterly, absolutely, completely blank, except for the one thought: this is the biggest moment of your life and you have nothing to say. This was second by second walking by faith on automatic.  \par
He was hoping a sermon would just roll out.  They were expecting one. Really, that was a reasonable request.  He was supposed to have one.  That, also, was reasonable.\par
\cf1 He repeated Paul's greeting.  He was flipping through his Bible, trying to find it.  \par
"Pastor, with all due respect, what is the text today?"\par
"Phillipians 1: 1 to 2."  He had found it as she finished speaking.\par
"Thank you, pastor."  He nodded.  \cf0 They were armed.  So they would not string him up with a rope.  Maybe he could get out of town alive. Just maybe.  He wished a gun would "accidentally" go off or something and he could escape in the confusion. He worked on getting that wish under control.\par
He had a minute while they found the passage. It was polite to wait. Solemn silences were sometimes used by the best preachers.  How about the worst? \par
Nuts, he said to himself. This is lost. Kaput. I might as well just say so.   \par
\cf1 "Why is it," he asked, "That Paul begins so many of his epistles with "Grace to you and peace?" It is because we need it.  We need to hear it a lot.  We need to understand that God has freed us from the law. " Now he had a theme, and it was even appropriate, and he went for it. Really, he had nothing else to say.  Sometimes what comes from the gut is a lot better than the study: your whole life's experience is thrust into a sermon instead of one more academic that is the result of a short, at a max, ten hour study and reflection on a text.  Dr. Robinson, his homoletics professor, had said that once.  With a shock he saw Dr. Robinson in the back row.  Next to him was the bishop. Deem kept talking. It was sort of a distillation of every conversation he had had since he arrived. He talked about the mercy of God. Then he paused.  Dr. Robinson was frowning severely. He had whispered once, quickly, to the bishop, who had nodded once. \par
"My name, as you know, is Deem Futz. Let me tell you how God's grace and mercy has played out in my life....."  And he told them.  He told them at length. It was all he had. How he had come to Christ.  How it fit with the Scriptures.  How the Scriptures ruled his life. He gave examples.\par
He laid out the need for grace. He laid out grace. He laid out the difference between grace and mercy.  \par
"And let me tell you how it can be worked out in your life...."  He had three points, oddly enough, although he did not think of the second until he had finished the first, and then the third followed.  Three detailed applications. Like he had planned it.\par
In the receiving line Elder Spinkster said,"Well, we won't shoot you for that one," and Deem realized it had been received well.\par
\cf0 "Good job," said Dr. Robinson, who did not believe in effusive, frivolous praise but blunt, Dutch honesty. "The best, I am sure, I have ever heard you preach."  Deem had never heard that from him before.  Under Doctor Robinson, several times his preaching had been so bad he had not been allowed to complete the sermon.\par
The bishop smiled and shook his hand, and people thanked him for preaching. \par
"We can't wait for the evening service, Pastor Futz," said one teenager.\par
Evening service?\par
7:00.  We are hoping you will continue where Pastor Hartmann stopped.\par
And where is that?\par
"Hebrews 7."\par
"I will take a look at it.  See you then."\par
Lunch was with Dr. Vehe, Kitten informed him.  And he had to make the rounds, the custom being that the pastor visit various homes on Sunday afternoon where the sermon would be debated, and he would have to answer questions. Why didn't they follow football instead, or something? Well, thank God for godly people in this church.\par
Dr. Vehe was a large animal vet, two doors down from the church in a large frame house on the corner and  vet clinic facing the street away from the church.  He'd been on the Session and this was his off-rotation, but that did not mean he kept his nose completely out of things.\par
"The potato salad is delicious," he told Mrs. Vehe.  They were Dr. and Mrs. Vehe, apparently, as they had been introduced and as they addressed each other. \par
She smiled. "We have iced watermelon in the fridge."  Wonderful.  What was with these people and no air conditioning? The twenty-foot ceiling, and the ceiling fan, helped, but Deem was still sweating.  Coversation was difficult:\par
"What made you become a veterinarian?"\par
"I got tired of killing people." \par
Silence.\par
"What did you like about the sermon?"\par
"I told you, good job.  That should suffice. It's even charitable, come to think of it."\par
Silence.\par
Mrs. Vehe would smile and offer Deem more food.  She seemed determined, though, to let her husband do the talking.  But he wouldn't. Deem learned that he shaved his head and had a short, iron grey beard. He'd grow it longer but he got tired of ---- in it.  \par
"Do you have children?"\par
"Yes."\par
Silence.\par
"How long have you lived in Nicholls?"\par
"Twenty-eight years.  I moved here when they needed a large animal vet. The old one died. I married a local girl." He nodded. "I was Force Recon.  We took long walks in the woods."\par
This seemed to mean something. \par
"I don't like to talk about it. But if you must know, I was there during the evacuation of Phnom Penh and then the evacuation of Saigon before they fell.  After that, I didn't re-up. College. Vet school. Then a residency, then here. It seemed like a good fit."\par
"Is it?"\par
"--- yes."\par
Deem was slightly stunned by the profanity.  Dr. Vehe did not seem to notice.\par
"I was raised Baptist, but there are only two churches in town: St. George's for the Catholics, and the Epper church, for Protestants.  It used to be the Corps believed those were the only two religions a Marine could be, and one church for each should be enought issued, or something like that.  A lot of the Corps mindset is embedded in the town."\par
"No Jews or Muslims here?"\par
"No.  But any Marine is a brother."\par
"So I gather."\par
"Did you see the sign on my lawn?"\par
"No."\par
"Good. I removed it, in honor of your coming. It says, 'Any Marine is Welcome here. Anyone else, get the ---- off my lawn.'   You are not a Marine."\par
"No, I am not."\par
"How do you expect to be able to pastor Marines, then?"\par
"The Marines use Navy Chaplains, right?"\par
"Yes. I see where you are going. Thank you."\par
Silence.\par
"Are there a lot of large animals around here?"\par
"Yep. Ranch country. Mostly cattle, a few exotics. I'm the only vet in the County."\par
"So you are the vet for the Ranch?"\par
"Yes.  But I do not discuss my patients except with their owners.  Confidentiality."\par
Silence. \par
"You want a beer?"\par
"Sure."  That helped.  Mrs. Vehe got them, icy bottles.  Doc opened Deem's for him, seeing he was a guest. It was good and cold.\par
"Mind if I smoke?"   \par
"It's your house, Doc."\par
"Yeah, but I try to be polite."  He pulled out an enormous Meerschaum pipe. "Do you smoke?"\par
Deem shook his head. Wasn't it hot enough?\par
The watermelon arrived, and the pipe smoked slowly on a small frog-shaped ashtray. A ceramic one.  Deem had seen a number of ceramic frogs around town.  Perhaps they were made by the same people.\par
"Yep.  Kikker Medical started off as a small ceramics shop with Mark Kikker making pottery. They got into medical ceramics and now employ a whole lot of the town. One of our biggest industries, in fact.  They're not Marines - Matt and Mark and Luke. Mark died a few years ago. Brilliant guy.  They are, or were, Ranch people.  But Luke and Pat Oshiwara have taken the gold in the Nicholls Open MMA Tournament a number of times.  That's helped the sense of otherness about the Ranch."\par
The phone had begun ringing. Just when Deem felt he was finally talking.  But there was an emergency involving an animal, and a vet is always on call - gotta go. Deem was ushered out and back to Pfingsters.  Somehow Aaron was outside waiting for him, and they walked back together. \par
 "Well done, Deem."\par
"Thanks."\par
"You need to do the rounds.  In this town people after church people get together and eat on Sundays, either whole families or as a housefull of people.  You are going to meet some more people."\par
"That is what I thought."\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 